Table of Contents
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
1.
Nature of Business
Shopify Inc. ("Shopify" or the "Company") was incorporated on September 28, 2004. Shopify is a leading global commerce company that provides essential internet infrastructure for commerce, offering trusted tools to start, scale, market and run a business of any size. Shopify makes commerce better for everyone with a software platform and services that are engineered for simplicity and reliability, while delivering a better shopping experience for consumers everywhere. The Company's software enables merchants to run their business across all of their sales channels, including web and mobile storefronts, physical retail locations, social media storefronts and marketplaces. The Shopify platform provides merchants with a single view of their business across all of their sales channels and enables them to manage products and inventory, process orders and payments, fulfill and ship orders, build customer relationships, source products, leverage analytics and reporting and access financing, all from one integrated back office.
2.
Basis of Presentation and Consolidation
These consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its directly and indirectly held wholly owned subsidiaries including, but not limited to: Shopify LLC, Shopify Holdings (USA) 2 Inc., Shopify (USA) Inc., Shopify Strategic Holdings 3 LLC, incorporated in the state of Delaware in the United States; Shopify International Limited, incorporated in Ireland; Shopify Commerce Singapore Pte. Ltd., incorporated in Singapore; All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated upon consolidation.
These consolidated financial statements of the Company have been presented in United States dollars ("USD") and have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"), including the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") regarding financial reporting.
3.
Significant Accounting Policies
Use of Estimates
The preparation of consolidated financial statements, in accordance with U.S. GAAP, requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting year. Actual results may differ from the estimates made by management. Significant estimates, judgments and assumptions in these consolidated financial statements include: key judgments related to revenue recognition in determining whether the Company is the principal or an agent to the arrangements with merchants; estimates and judgments involved in applying the measurement alternative associated with equity and other investments in private companies, including revenue growth rates and revenue multiples based on market comparables; estimates involved in our equity method investment; probabilities of achieving performance milestones associated with non-cash revenue consideration from strategic partnerships; and the probability and amount of loss contingencies.
Revenue Recognition
The Company's sources of revenue consist of subscription solutions and merchant solutions.
Sales taxes collected from merchants and remitted to government authorities are excluded from revenue.
The Company's arrangements with customers can include multiple performance obligations, which may consist of some or all of the Company's subscription solutions. The total transaction price is determined at the inception of the contract and allocated to each performance obligation based on their relative standalone selling prices. In the case of merchant solutions, the transaction price for each performance obligation is based on the observable standalone selling price for each performance obligation. The transaction price for multiple merchant solutions is never a bundled price, therefore a relative allocation is not required.
80
Table of Contents
The Company generally receives payment from its merchants at the time of invoicing. In all other cases, payment terms and conditions vary by contract type, although terms generally include a requirement for payment within 30 days of the invoice date.
Subscription Solutions
For services where the performance obligation is to provide merchants with access to the Shopify platform, such as Online Subscriptions and Point-of-Sale ("POS") Pro subscriptions, revenue is recognized over time on a ratable basis over the contractual term of the subscriptions. Certain subscription contracts have a transaction price that includes a variable component that is based on the merchants' volume of sales. In such cases, the Company recognizes revenue when the merchant's sale occurs, the variable price becomes known and it has a right to invoice. Payments received in advance of services being rendered are recorded as deferred revenue and recognized ratably over time, over the requisite service period.
Revenue from the sale of separately priced apps and themes is recognized at a point in time, when the arrangement between the merchant and partner is established. Revenue from the sale of rights to use a domain name that is sold separately is recognized ratably over time, over the contractual term, which is generally an annual term.
Merchant Solutions
The Company offers a variety of merchant solutions, which are primarily transaction based, to augment those provided through a subscription and to address the broad array of functionality merchants commonly require.
For services where the performance obligation is to process payments for the Company’s merchants, from such services as Shopify Payments, Transaction Fees and Shop Pay Installments, revenues are recognized at a point in time, at the time of the transaction.
The Company earns referral fees from third parties to whom it directs business pursuant to agreements with such partners. Related revenues can be recurring or non-recurring and are recognized once the arrangement between the partner and customer has been made or over the expected term of the contract. In connection with certain referral revenue contracts with partners, the Company receives a component of the transaction price in non-cash consideration in the form of equity in the partner at the outset of the contract. When the transaction price includes non-cash consideration, the non-cash consideration is measured as the fair value at the inception of the contract.
Other revenue generating services and products to merchants include, but are not limited to, the sale of shipping labels, the sale of POS hardware, advertising on the Shopify App Store and Shop Campaigns, the Company’s buyer acquisition offering. Revenue is recognized when services are performed, or as ownership passes to the merchant.
Principal versus Agent
For revenue streams that involve another party that contributes to providing a specified service to a customer, the Company determines whether it is the principal or an agent. In these instances, the Company determines whether it has promised to provide the specified service itself (as principal) or to arrange for the specified service to be provided by another party (as an agent). This determination depends on the facts and circumstances of each arrangement and, in some instances, involves significant judgment. The Company recognizes revenue from certain services, such as the sale of shipping labels, the sale of apps, the sale of themes, card services and installments services, on a net basis as the Company is the agent in the arrangement with customers. All other revenue is reported on a gross basis, as the Company has determined it is the principal in the respective arrangements.
Lending Services
For lending services, including loans and merchant cash advances ("MCAs"), the performance obligations associated with these services is to arrange and provide funding to merchants. Certain loans and MCAs are facilitated by the Company and originated by bank partners, from whom the Company
81
Table of Contents
then purchases the loans and MCAs, obtaining all rights, title and interest or discount for a fixed fee or calculated as a percentage of the MCA's or loan's principal. Revenues are presented as merchant solutions revenue net of any deferred origination fees, which are amortized over the contractual or expected term of the loan or MCA. Interest and fees earned on the loan portfolio are recognized as merchant solutions revenue based on the effective interest method. For certain loans where the borrowing fee is fixed, the Company uses the expected repayment date and volume to calculate an effective interest rate. For loans, using the merchant's contractual or expected repayment date, the Company calculates an effective interest rate based on the merchant's expected future payment volume to determine how much of a merchant's repayment to recognize as revenue and how much to apply against the merchant's receivable balance. For some loans, the Company sells its full rights, title and interest to third-party investors. We account for the asset transfer as a sale and derecognize the full amount the Company paid to its bank partner to originate the loan and record a gain on sale of the loans sold to the third-party investor as merchant solutions revenue upon transfer of title. For MCA's, the Company applies a percentage of the remittances collected against the merchant's receivable balance, and a percentage, which is related to the discount, as merchant solutions revenue.
Logistic Services
Logistics related revenue was recognized up until the second quarter of 2023, at which point the Company sold its logistics businesses, as further described in Note 4. Prior to the sale of these businesses, revenue was generated from the respective fulfillment solutions, which included picking, packing and preparing orders for shipment, and outbound shipping, as well as additional revenues from inbound shipping, storage, returns processing and other fulfillment-related services as needed by merchants. Revenue related to these fulfillment solutions were recognized over time as the Company fulfilled, up to completion of delivery. Revenues related to the inbound, storage and return processing offerings were recognized over time, and revenues related to other fulfillment-related services were recognized at a point in time, once the services had been rendered. The Company also earned revenues from providing cloud-based software on collaborative warehouse fulfillment solutions which were recognized over time, over the contractual term, which could have been up to
five years
. Payments received in advance of services being rendered were recorded as deferred revenue and recognized ratably over time, over the requisite service period.
Rewards Program
Our merchants' customers (or "buyers") in North America can participate in our rewards program ("Shop Cash") and earn Shop Cash rewards on certain eligible purchases made from merchants or through other incentive programs. Buyers can then redeem Shop Cash against purchases through the Shop app, which we track on their behalf. Shop Cash cannot be redeemed for cash.
Rewards issued to buyers, to whom we have no performance obligation, are generally expensed as a cost of revenues, however depending on the policy the rewards were earned under, they may be expensed as sales and marketing. The rewards are expensed when they are made available to the buyer at an estimated value based on the redemption value, less an estimate of Shop Cash rewards that are not expected to be redeemed ("breakage"). Breakage is based on historical breakage trends and supportable forecasted information.
Software Development Costs
Research and development costs are generally expensed as incurred. The Company may capitalize certain development costs incurred in connection with its internal use software. The Company expenses costs in the preliminary stages of development and may capitalize direct and incremental costs through technological feasibility, in which capitalization ceases once the additional features and functionality are put into service. Capitalized costs are recorded as part of intangible assets in the consolidated balance sheets and are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of
two
or
three years
.
Advertising Costs
Advertising costs are expensed as incurred.
Advertising costs included in sales and marketing expenses during the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022 were $
546
million, $
497
million and $
505
million respectively.
82
Table of Contents
Stock-Based Compensation
The accounting for stock-based awards is based on the fair value of the award measured at the grant date. Accordingly, stock-based compensation cost is recognized as an operating expense over the requisite service period.
The fair value of stock options is determined using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, single option approach. An estimate of forfeitures is applied when determining compensation expense. The Company determines the fair value of stock option awards on the date of grant using assumptions regarding expected term, share price volatility over the expected term of the awards, risk-free interest rate and dividend rate. All Class A subordinate voting shares issued in connection with options under the Company's Second Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan ("SOP") are from the Company's treasury pool.
The fair value of restricted share units ("RSU") is measured using the fair value of the Company's shares as if the RSUs were issued and vested on the grant date. An estimate of forfeitures is applied when determining compensation expense. All Class A subordinate voting shares issued in connection with awards under the Company's Second Amended and Restated Long Term Incentive Plan ("LTIP") are from the Company's treasury pool.
Income Taxes
Income tax expense includes domestic and foreign income taxes.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amounts that are more likely than not to be realized. The Company considers many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including its recent cumulative loss experience and expectations of future earnings, capital gains and investment in the applicable jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available to it for tax reporting purposes and other relevant factors.
The Company evaluates tax positions taken or expected to be taken in the course of preparing tax returns to determine whether the tax positions have met a “more-likely-than-not” threshold of being sustained by the applicable tax authority. Tax benefits related to tax positions not deemed to meet the “more-likely-than-not” threshold are not permitted to be recognized in the consolidated financial statements.
Foreign Currency Translation and Transactions
The functional and reporting currency of the Company and its subsidiaries is USD. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are re-measured to USD using the exchange rates prevailing at the consolidated balance sheet dates. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are measured in USD using historical exchange rates. Revenues and expenses are measured using the actual exchange rates prevailing on the dates of the transactions. Gains and losses resulting from re-measurement are recorded in the Company’s consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss) as "Foreign exchange (loss) gain", with the exception of foreign exchange forward contracts and options used for hedging which are re-measured in "Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)" and the income (loss) is then reclassified into earnings to either cost of revenue or operating expenses in the same period, or periods, during which the hedged transaction affects earnings.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
The Company considers all short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash, with original maturities at their acquisition date of three months or less to be cash equivalents. We consider cash to be restricted when withdrawal or general use is legally restricted.
83
Table of Contents
Marketable Securities
The Company’s marketable debt securities consist of federal bonds and agency securities, U.S. term deposits and corporate bonds and commercial paper, and mature within 36 months from the date of purchase. Marketable debt securities are classified as held-to-maturity at the time of purchase and this classification is re-evaluated as of each consolidated balance sheet date. Held-to-maturity debt securities represent those securities that the Company has both the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity and are carried at amortized cost. Interest on these debt securities, as well as amortization/accretion of premiums/discounts, are included in interest income. Marketable debt securities are assessed as to whether any unrealized loss positions are other than temporarily impaired. Impairments are considered other than temporary if they are related to deterioration in credit risk or if it is likely the Company would be required to sell the securities before the recovery of their remaining amortized cost basis. Realized gains and losses determined to be other than temporary are determined based on the specific identification method and are reported in "Other income (expense), net" in the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss). Marketable debt securities with contractual maturity greater than one year are classified as "Long-term investments" in the consolidated balance sheets.
Fair Value Measurements
The carrying amounts for cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, trade and other receivables, merchant cash advances receivable, loans, trade accounts payable and accruals and employee-related accruals approximate fair value due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.
The Company measures certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value based on applicable accounting guidance, using a fair value hierarchy. A financial instrument’s classification within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
Fair Value Option
The guidance in ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging, provides a fair value option election that allows entities to make an irrevocable election to not separate embedded derivatives from their host contract and to fair value the hybrid instrument upon initial recognition and subsequent measurement dates for certain eligible financial assets and liabilities. Unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected are reported in earnings. The decision to elect the fair value option is determined on an instrument by instrument basis and must be applied to an entire instrument and is irrevocable once elected. The Company has elected to apply the fair value option to its investments in convertible notes in private companies. The fair value elections were made in order to maintain consistency in presentation across equity and other investments.
Equity and Other Investments
Strategic investments are a part of the Company's strategy and use of capital, expanding its expertise and building strong partnerships around strategic initiatives. The Company evaluates each investment to determine if the investment is a variable interest entity and, if so, whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of the variable interest entity. As of December 31, 2024 and 2023, there were no variable interest entities required to be consolidated in the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The Company classifies each equity investment into one of three categories: (i) equity and other investments with readily determinable fair values, (ii) equity and other investments without readily determinable fair values and (iii) equity and other investments under the equity method of accounting.
Equity and other investments in publicly traded companies with readily determinable fair values are carried at fair value at each balance sheet date and any movements in the fair value are classified as "Other income (expense), net" in the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss).
Equity and other investments in private companies without readily determinable fair values are carried at cost less impairments, with subsequent adjustments for observable changes (referred to as the measurement alternative). Estimates and judgments are involved in applying the measurement
84
Table of Contents
alternative associated with equity and other investments without readily determinable fair values by developing certain key assumptions, including revenue growth rates and revenue multiples based on market comparables.
The Company also holds investments in convertible notes of private companies which are classified as available-for-sale debt securities, for which the Company has elected to account for under the fair value option. The investments are carried at fair value at each balance sheet date and any movements in the fair values are classified as "Other income (expense), net" in the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss).
The Company evaluates each investment to determine if the investment should be accounted for as an equity method investment based upon equity ownership, significant influence and ongoing involvement in the investee, including factors such as representation on the investee's board of directors. Investments that qualify for the equity method of accounting treatment are carried at the Company’s investment amounts and adjusted each period for the Company’s share of the investee’s income or loss plus the amortization of the basis difference, which is the difference between the fair value of our investment in the company and the underlying equity in the net assets of the investee. The Company determined that the investment in Flexport, Inc. ("Flexport") is an equity method investment. The Company's share of income or loss in the investee, combined with the amortization of the basis difference, is presented as "Net loss on equity method investment" in the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss).
Investment options to purchase additional shares of equity and other investments are classified as a derivative instrument at fair value using the Black-Scholes model. These derivative instruments are not designated as hedges and presented within "Equity and other investments" in the consolidated balance sheets.
The Company assesses its equity and other investments in private companies and equity method investment for impairment through analyzing market conditions, business results and other qualitative measures that suggest that the carrying amount of the investment may be impaired, and the decline in value below the carrying amount is determined to be other than temporary.
Derivatives and Hedging
The majority of the Company's derivative products are foreign exchange forward contracts and options, which are designated as cash flow hedges of foreign currency forecasted expenses. By their nature, derivative financial instruments involve risk, including the credit risk of non-performance by counterparties. The Company may hold foreign exchange forward contracts and options to mitigate the risk of future foreign exchange rate volatility related to future British Pound Sterling ("GBP"), Euros, Canadian dollar ("CAD") and Australian dollar ("AUD") denominated costs and current and future obligations.
The Company's foreign currency forward contracts and options generally have maturities of 12 months or less. The critical terms match method is used when the key terms of the hedging instrument and that of the hedged item are aligned; therefore, the changes in fair value of the forward contracts and options are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income ("AOCI"). The effective portion of the gain or loss on each forward contract and option is reported as a component of AOCI and reclassified into earnings to either cost of revenue or operating expense in the same period, or periods, during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. The ineffective portion of the gains or losses, if any, is recorded immediately in "Other income (expense), net".
For hedges that do not qualify for the critical terms match method of accounting, a formal assessment is performed to verify that derivatives used in hedging transactions continue to be highly effective in offsetting the changes in fair value or cash flows of the hedged item. Hedge accounting is discontinued if a derivative ceases to be highly effective, matures, is terminated or sold, if a hedged forecasted transaction is no longer probable of occurring, or if the Company removes the derivative's hedge designation. For discontinued cash flow hedges, the accumulated gain or loss on the derivative remains in AOCI and is reclassified into earnings in the period in which the previously hedged forecasted transaction impacts earnings or is no longer probable of occurring.
85
Table of Contents
In addition, the Company has a master netting agreement with each of the Company's counterparties, which permits net settlement of multiple, separate derivative contracts with a single payment. The Company presents its derivative instruments on a net basis in the consolidated financial statements.
Provision for Credit Losses Related to Loans and Merchant Cash Advances
Loans and merchant cash advance receivables represent the aggregate amount of Shopify Capital related receivables owed by merchants as of the balance sheet date, net of an allowance for expected credit losses. The Company estimates the loss provision based on an assessment of various factors, including historical trends, merchants' gross merchandise volume ("GMV"), supportable forecasted information and other factors, including macroeconomic factors, that may affect the merchants' ability to make future payments on the receivables. Increases to the provision are reflected in current operating results, while charges against the provision are made when losses are incurred. Recoveries are reflected as a reduction in the allowance for credit losses related to loans and merchant cash advances when the recovery occurs. These additions, charges and recoveries are classified within "Transaction and loan losses" on the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss).
Provision for Transaction Losses Related to Shopify Payments, Shop Pay Installments and Shopify Balance
Transaction losses arise from unrecovered merchant transactions due to returns and disputes. The Company may also incur losses when a merchant account experiences unauthorized transactions where funds cannot be recovered or reversed. The Company estimates the provision for transaction losses based on an assessment of various factors, including historical trends, GMV (facilitated using Shopify Payments and Shop Pay Installments including those managed using Shopify Balance), supportable forecasted information and other factors that may increase the volume of losses. Additions to the provision are reflected in current operating results, while charges against the provision are made when losses are incurred. These additions are classified within "Transaction and loan losses" on the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss).
Loss Contingencies
The Company records accruals for loss contingencies when losses are probable and reasonably estimable. The Company evaluates developments in legal matters that could affect the amount of liability that has been previously accrued and makes adjustments as appropriate. Significant judgment is required to determine both probability and the estimated amount of a loss or potential loss. The Company may be unable to reasonably estimate the reasonably possible loss or range of loss for a particular legal contingency for various reasons, including, among others, because: (i) the damages sought are indeterminate; (ii) the proceedings are in the relative early stages; (iii) there is uncertainty as to the outcome of pending proceedings (including motions and appeals); (iv) there is uncertainty as to the likelihood of settlement and the outcome of any negotiations with respect thereto; (v) there remain significant factual issues to be determined or resolved; (vi) the relevant law is unsettled; or (vii) the proceedings involve novel or untested legal theories. In such instances, there may be considerable uncertainty regarding the ultimate resolution of such matters, including the likelihood or magnitude of a possible eventual loss, if any.
Operating Leases
The Company accounts for operating leases by first determining if an arrangement is a lease, or contains a lease, at inception. The operating lease right-of-use assets and operating lease liabilities are recognized at the commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. The Company's leases do not provide an implicit rate, therefore, the incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date was used to determine the present value of lease payments. The right-of-use assets exclude lease incentives, which are accounted for as a reduction of lease liabilities if they have not yet been received. The Company's lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease. Lease expense related to lease components is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The carrying values of right-of-use assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of such assets may not be recoverable. The
86
Table of Contents
determination of whether any impairment exists includes a comparison of estimated undiscounted future cash flows anticipated to be generated over the remaining life of an asset or asset group to their net carrying value. If the estimated undiscounted future cash flows associated with the asset or asset group are less than the carrying value, an impairment loss will be recorded based on the estimated fair value. For right-of-use assets that are impaired, the remaining carrying value of the right-of-use assets are amortized on a straight line basis over the remaining term of the lease.
The Company's lease agreements include lease and non-lease components, which are accounted for separately under Topic 842, Leases. Variable lease components and non-lease components are excluded from the lease payments used to calculate the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities, and are recorded in the period in which the obligation for the payment is incurred.
The Company subleases certain leased office space and recognizes sublease income on a straight-line basis over the sublease term. Sublease payments received for variable lease costs will be recorded as income, as earned. The Company recognizes sublease income as an offset to lease expense in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive (loss) income.
Property and Equipment
Property and equipment is stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and impairment. Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Computer equipment is depreciated over the lesser of
three years
and their estimated useful lives while furniture and equipment are depreciated over
four years
. Leasehold improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the term of their associated leases, which range from
one
to
fifteen years
. Fulfillment robots and fulfillment equipment, which were depreciated over the lesser of
three years
and its useful life and ranged from
three
to
ten years
, respectively, were depreciated up until the second quarter of 2023, at which point the Company sold its logistics businesses, as further described in Note 4.
Intangible Assets
Intangible assets are stated at cost, less accumulated amortization and impairment. Amortization is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Acquired technology is amortized over a
one
to
six year
period, acquired customer relationships are amortized over a
one
- to
two-year
period, capitalized software development costs are amortized over a
two
- to
four-year
period and other intangible assets are amortized over a
three
- to
ten-year
period or may have an indefinite useful life and not amortized. Amortization is recorded into cost of revenues and operating expenses, depending on the nature of the asset.
Impairment of Long-lived Assets
The carrying values of long-lived assets (including leases, property and equipment and intangible assets) are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of such assets may not be recoverable. The determination of whether any impairment exists includes a comparison of estimated undiscounted future cash flows anticipated to be generated over the remaining life of the asset or asset group to their net carrying value. If the estimated undiscounted future cash flows associated with the asset or asset group are less than the carrying value, an impairment loss will be recorded based on the estimated fair value.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of net assets of a business acquired in a business combination. Goodwill is not amortized, but instead tested for impairment at least annually. Should certain events or indicators of impairment occur between annual impairment tests, the Company will perform the impairment test as those events or indicators occur for our reporting unit.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level by first performing a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value. The qualitative assessment considers the following factors: macroeconomic conditions,
87
Table of Contents
industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall company financial performance, events affecting the reporting unit and changes in the Company’s fair value. If the reporting unit does not pass the qualitative assessment, the Company carries out a quantitative test for impairment of goodwill. This is done by comparing the fair value of the reporting unit with the carrying value of the reporting unit that includes goodwill. If the fair value of the reporting unit is greater than its carrying value, including goodwill, no impairment results. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, including goodwill, an impairment loss would be recognized in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss) in an amount equal to that difference, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. The Company has an unconditional option to bypass the qualitative assessment for our reporting unit in any period and proceed directly to performing the quantitative goodwill impairment test. The Company may resume performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period.
Business Combinations
The Company follows the acquisition method to account for business combinations in accordance with ASC 805, Business Combinations. The acquisition method of accounting requires that assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at their estimated fair values on the date of a business acquisition. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value is recorded as goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the values of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments would be recorded in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive (loss) income.
Segment Information
The Company’s chief operating decision maker ("CODM") is the Chief Executive Officer. The CODM is the highest level of management responsible for assessing Shopify’s overall performance, and making operational decisions such as resource allocations related to operations, product prioritization and delegations of authority. The CODM has determined that the Company operates in a single operating and reportable segment and manages segment profit (loss) based upon consolidated net income (loss). The measure of segment assets is reported on the consolidated balance sheet as total consolidated assets.
Concentration of Credit Risk
The Company’s cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, trade and other receivables, loans, merchant cash advances and foreign exchange derivative instruments subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk. Management mitigates this risk associated with cash and cash equivalents by making deposits and entering into foreign exchange derivative products only with large banks and financial institutions that are considered to be highly creditworthy. We limit the amount of credit exposure with any one financial institution and conduct timely evaluations of the credit worthiness of these financial institutions. Management mitigates the risks associated with marketable securities by adhering to its investment policy, which stipulates minimum rating requirements, maximum investment exposures and maximum maturities. Due to the Company’s diversified merchant base, there is no particular concentration of credit risk related to the Company’s trade and other receivables, loans receivable and merchant cash advances. Trade and other receivables, loans receivable and merchant cash advances are monitored on an ongoing basis to ensure timely collection of amounts. The Company has mitigated some of the risks associated with Shopify Capital by holding insurance policies with an AAA rated provider as of December 31, 2024. The Company pays a monthly premium based on total eligible dollars advanced, and records this as "General and administrative" expense in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss). All policies include a deductible set at either a specified dollar loss threshold or calculated as a percentage of eligible advances issued. The receivable related to insurance recoveries, if any, is included in "Loans and merchant cash advances, net" in the consolidated balance sheets. There are no receivables from individual merchants accounting for 10% or more of revenues or receivables.
Equity and Other Investments Risk
The Company holds equity and other investments that are subject to a wide variety of market-related risks that could substantially reduce or increase the fair value of our holdings. The Company's equity and
88
Table of Contents
other investments in public companies are recorded at fair value, which is subject to market price volatility. The Company also holds an investment option to purchase Series B common shares in Klaviyo, Inc. which is accounted for as a derivative instrument and valued using the Black-Scholes model, and is subject to market price volatility as well as a discount for lack of marketability. The Company's equity investments in private companies are recorded using the measurement alternative and are assessed each reporting period for observable price changes and impairments, which may involve estimates and judgments given the lack of readily available market data. Certain equity investments in private companies are in the early stages of development and are inherently risky due to their lack of operational history. Furthermore, for the equity method investment, Shopify's share of income and loss from these investments may cause volatility to Shopify's earnings. The Company's debt investments in convertible notes of private companies are recorded at fair value, which are impacted by the underlying entities' valuations and interest rates.
The Company has a high concentration of risk associated with a small number of equity and other investments that are impacted by fluctuations in their fair values or by observable changes or impairments.
Interest Rate Risk
A portion of the Company’s cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and loans and debt securities earn interest. The Company’s trade and other receivables, accounts payable and accrued liabilities and lease liabilities do not bear interest. The Company's
0.125
% convertible senior notes due 2025 (the "Notes") have a fixed annual interest rate and thus, the Company does not have economic interest rate exposure on the Notes. The Company is not exposed to material interest rate risk.
Foreign Exchange Risk
The Company's results of operations and foreign currency assets and liabilities are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations.
While the majority of the Company's revenues, cost of revenues and operating expenses are denominated in USD, a significant portion are denominated in foreign currencies. Due to offering Shopify Payments, Shopify Capital, subscriptions and other billings to select countries in local currency, a significant proportion of revenue transactions are denominated in GBP, Euros and CAD. Furthermore, a significant proportion of operating expenses are also incurred in the aforementioned foreign currencies.
Although foreign currency fluctuations associated with revenues and costs may partially offset one another in earnings, the Company uses foreign exchange derivative products to mitigate a portion of the remaining exposure of foreign currency fluctuations as discussed in Note 5. By their nature, derivative financial instruments involve risk, including the credit risk of non-performance by counterparties.
Accounting Pronouncements Adopted in the Year
In November 2023, the FASB issued ASU 2023-07 on Improvements to Reportable Segment Disclosures to enhance interim and annual disclosures at the segment level. Entities are required to provide disclosures of significant segmented expenses and other categories used by the Chief Operating Decision Maker. The Updates also clarify circumstances in which an entity can disclose multiple segment measures of profit or loss, provide new segment disclosure requirements for entities with a single reportable segment, and contain other disclosure requirements. The Updates are effective for annual periods beginning after January 1, 2024. The Company adopted this ASU in the year ended December 31, 2024. The CODM has determined that the Company operates in a single operating and reportable segment and manages segment profit (loss) based upon consolidated net income (loss). The impact of adoption on the Company's consolidated financial statements was disclosure of the segment measure of profit (loss) and the measure of segment assets reported on the consolidated balance sheet as total consolidated assets used by the CODM to assess segment performance and allocate resources.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted
In December 2023, the FASB issued ASU 2023-09 on Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures that require greater disaggregation of income tax disclosures to the income rate tax rate reconciliation and
89
Table of Contents
income taxes paid. The Updates are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2024. The Company will adopt and apply the guidance in fiscal year 2025. The Company is still assessing the impact of this disclosure ASU.
In November 2024, the FASB issued ASU 2024-03 on Disaggregation of Income Statement Expenses that enhances disclosure of certain costs and expenses to provide enhanced transparency into the expenses presented in the income statement. The Updates are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2026. The Company will adopt and apply the guidance in fiscal year 2027. The Company is still assessing the impact of this disclosure ASU.
4.
Business Acquisition and Sales of Businesses
Business Acquisition
During the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, the Company completed individually immaterial acquisitions that resulted in goodwill and intangible assets being recognized.
Deliverr, Inc.
On July 8, 2022, the Company completed the acquisition of Deliverr, a company based in San Francisco, California, that provided fulfillment services to ecommerce retailers. The acquisition accelerated the development of Shopify's logistics offering by adding Deliverr's software, which included machine learning and optimization technology. The Company acquired
100
% of the outstanding shares of Deliverr in exchange for cash consideration of $
1,962
million and $
10
million in Shopify Class A subordinate voting shares. In connection with the transaction, a further $
294
million in restricted shares, RSUs and stock options were issued and were accounted for as stock-based compensation as they were related to post-combination services. The transaction was accounted for as a business combination.
The following table summarizes the purchase price allocation of the Deliverr assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date:
The acquired technology was valued at $
255
million using a relief-from-royalty methodology, the customer relationships were valued at $
29
million using a cost approach and other intangibles were valued at $
4
million using a relief-from-royalty methodology, and amortized over
six
,
five
and
three years
, respectively. Goodwill from the Deliverr acquisition was primarily attributable to the synergies that resulted from integrating the Deliverr software with Shopify's logistics offering, and the acquisition of the assembled workforce.
None
of the goodwill recognized is deductible for income tax purposes. The deferred tax liability related to the taxable temporary difference on the acquired intangible assets.
90
Table of Contents
Sale of Businesses
In the second quarter of 2023 the Company sold its logistics businesses (the "divested businesses"). The majority of the logistics business was sold to Flexport, a leading tech-driven global logistics platform. The Company received non-cash consideration in the form of a
13
% equity interest on a fully-diluted basis inclusive of warrants and options.
The net assets of the divested businesses had an aggregate carrying amount above their estimated fair value and accordingly, an impairment loss was recorded in operating expenses as "Impairment on sales of Shopify's logistics businesses" in the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss), for the year ended December 31, 2023.
The components of the sale were as follows in US $ millions:
(1)
The value of non-cash consideration received is an estimate and was independently estimated by Shopify by using unobservable inputs, including the investee's revenue growth rates and revenue multiples based on market comparables.
The non-cash consideration was in addition to the Company's existing equity interest in Flexport. The investment in Flexport is accounted for under the equity method investment (see Note 6).
5.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
As of December 31, 2024 and 2023, the Company’s cash and cash equivalents balance was $
1,498
million and $
1,413
million, respectively. These balances include $
806
million and $
755
million, respectively, of money market funds, corporate bonds and commercial paper. As of December 31, 2024, $
9
million of the Company's cash and cash equivalents balance is considered restricted cash (December 31, 2023 - $
8
million).
6.
Financial Instruments
The Company measures financial instruments based on quoted prices in active markets (Level 1), inputs from similar instruments such as quoted prices or other observable market data (Level 2) or where little or no market activity exists, using unobservable inputs that require judgment or estimation (Level 3).
Debt Securities
The Company holds certain debt securities that are classified as held-to-maturity at the time of purchase as the Company has both the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity. The fair value of corporate bonds are based upon Level 2 inputs, which include period-end mid-market quotations for each underlying contract as calculated by the financial institution with which the Company has transacted. The quotations are based on bid/ask quotations and represent the discounted future settlement amounts based on current market rates.
The Company also holds debt securities in the form of convertible notes in private companies classified as available-for-sale for which the Company has elected to apply the fair value option. The investments are carried at fair value at each balance sheet date and any movements in the fair values are recognized in the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss).
91
Table of Contents
The following tables summarize debt securities by balance sheet classification and level within the fair value hierarchy:
The fair values of marketable securities above include accrued interest of $
19
million, which is excluded from the carrying amounts. The accrued interest is included in "Trade and other receivables, net" in the consolidated balance sheets. Additional accrued interest of $
62
million recognized on the convertible notes in private companies is included in the carrying amount and fair value above.
(1)
In December 2023, the Company made a separate investment in Flexport through the purchase of convertible notes of $
260
and has elected to apply the fair value option to account for this instrument. As the inputs used in determining the fair value are unobservable, the fair value measurement of the investment is Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
92
Table of Contents
The fair values above include accrued interest of $
15
million, which is excluded from the carrying amounts. The accrued interest is included in "Trade and other receivables, net" in the consolidated balance sheets. Additional accrued interest of $
21
million recognized on the convertible notes in private companies is included in the carrying amount and fair value above.
The following table outlines estimated fair values of our debt securities by date of contractual maturity as of December 31, 2024:
Equity Securities
The Company holds equity investments in public companies that were obtained through a combination of direct investment and strategic partnerships.
Equity investments with readily determinable fair values are comprised of:
(1)
In the year ended December 31, 2024, $
18
million was transferred from Level 3 to Level 1 due to the vesting of warrants (December 31, 2023 - $
49
million). In the year ended December 31, 2023, the equity investments categorized as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy represent unvested warrants that require the application of a discount for lack of marketability which was
8
%.
(2)
In the year ended December 31, 2024, $
37
million was transferred from Level 3 to Level 1, respectively, due to the vesting of warrants (December 31, 2023 - $
11
million). The equity investments categorized as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy represent unvested warrants that require the application of a discount for lack of marketability which was
18
% at December 31, 2024 (December 31, 2023 -
21
%).
Adjustments related to equity and other investments with readily determinable fair values for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 were as follows:
(1)
Effective September 20, 2023, the Company's investment in Klaviyo, Inc. no longer qualified for the use of the measurement alternative as the fair value of the investment became readily determinable.
93
Table of Contents
Equity Investments without Readily Determinable Fair Values
The carrying value of equity investments in private companies without readily determinable fair values are:
Adjustments related to equity and other investments without readily determinable fair values for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 were as follows:
(1)
During the year ended December 31, 2024, the Company identified an observable price change resulting in the remeasurement of a private investment at fair value on a non-recurring basis. The resulting unrealized gains of $
78
million were presented as "Net unrealized (loss) gain on equity and other investments" in the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss).
(2)
During the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, the Company identified an observable price change resulting in the remeasurement of private investments at fair value on a non-recurring basis. The resulting unrealized losses were presented as "Net unrealized (loss) gain on equity and other investments" in the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss).
(3)
Effective September 20, 2023, the Company's investment in Klaviyo, Inc. no longer qualified for the use of the measurement alternative as $
257
million of the fair value of the investment became readily determinable. Additionally, the net settlement criteria was met for the Company's investment option to purchase Series B common shares resulting in $
54
million of the fair value being accounted for as a derivative.
As of December 31, 2024, included in the total $
717
million of equity and other investments without readily determinable fair values, $
593
million was remeasured at fair value and was classified within Level 3 of the fair value measurement hierarchy on a non-recurring basis.
Equity Method Investment
The Company holds an equity method investment in Flexport which is presented within "Equity method investment" in the consolidated balance sheets and is carried at the amount of Shopify’s original investment, as adjusted each period for Shopify’s share of the investee’s income or loss and the basis difference amortization, which is the difference between the fair value of our investment in the company and the underlying equity in the net assets of the investee. Results are reported with a one-quarter delay due to the timing of financial information availability from the investee. For the year ended December 31, 2024, our share of the loss in the investee was $
138
million (December 31, 2023 - $
58
million), and is presented within "Net loss on equity method investment" in the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss).
94
Table of Contents
Derivative Instruments and Hedging
As of December 31, 2024, the Company held foreign exchange forward contracts and options for USD, GBP, AUD and CAD with a total notional value of $
454
million (December 31, 2023 - $
473
million), to fund a portion of its operations. The fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts and options was based upon Level 2 inputs, which included year-end mid-market quotations for each underlying contract as calculated by the financial institution with which the Company has transacted. The quotations are based on bid/ask quotations and represent the discounted future settlement amounts based on current market rates.
Derivative Instruments Designated as Hedges
The Company has a hedging program to mitigate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on future cash flows and earnings. Under this program, the Company has entered into foreign exchange forward contracts and options with certain financial institutions and designated those hedges as cash flow hedges. The Company is hedging cash flows associated with payroll and facility costs.
The fair values of outstanding derivative instruments were as follows:
Unrealized gains and losses related to changes in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges were as follows:
These unrealized gains and losses were included in "Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income", "Other current assets" and "Accounts payable and accrued liabilities" in the consolidated balance sheets. These amounts are expected to be reclassified into earnings over the next twelve months.
Realized losses related to the maturity of foreign exchange forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges were as follows:
95
Table of Contents
Derivative Instruments Not Designated as Hedges
The Company holds an investment option to purchase
15,743,174
of Series B common shares of Klaviyo, Inc. at an exercise price of $
88.93
with an expiration date of July 28, 2030. The options are fair valued quarterly under Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy as certain unobservable inputs are used within the Black-Scholes model as well as a discount for lack of marketability. The fair value of the options as of December 31, 2024, utilizing a discount for lack of marketability of
29
%, was $
204
million (December 31, 2023 -
31
% and $
122
million) and is presented within "Equity and other investments" in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company recognized an unrealized gain of $
82
million for the year ended December 31, 2024 (December 31, 2023 - unrealized gain of $
68
million) and is presented as a component of "Net unrealized (loss) gain on equity and other investments".
7.
Trade and Other Receivables
Trade receivables and unbilled revenues, net of allowance for credit losses, were as follows:
Unbilled revenues represent amounts not yet billed related to partner referral fees, subscription fees for Plus merchants, shipping charges and transaction fees as of the consolidated balance sheet date.
The allowance for credit losses reflects the Company's best estimate of probable losses inherent in the unbilled revenues and trade receivables accounts. The Company determined the provision based on known troubled accounts, historical experience, supportable forecasts of collectibility and other currently available evidence.
Activity in the allowance for credit losses was as follows:
96
Table of Contents
8.
Loans and Merchant Cash Advances
(1)
Included in the loans receivable gross balance as of December 31, 2024 is $
15
million of interest receivable (December 31, 2023 - $
10
million, December 31, 2022 - $
3
million).
Certain loans and merchant cash advances are facilitated by the Company and originated by a bank partner, from whom the Company then purchases the loans and merchant cash advances obtaining all rights, title and interest or discount. In the year ended December 31, 2024, the Company purchased $
3.0
billion of merchant cash advances and loans to Shopify merchants (December 31, 2023 - $
2.0
billion). For some loans, the Company sells its full rights, title and interest to third-party investors. We account for the asset transfer as a sale and derecognize the full amount the Company paid to its bank partner to originate the loan and record a gain on sale of the loans sold to the third-party investor as revenue upon transfer of title. In the year ended December 31, 2024, the Company sold $
212
million of loans to third-party investors (December 31, 2023 - $
82
million).
In the year ended December 31, 2024, the Company recognized revenue of $
205
million related to interest and fees earned on the Company's lending services, which do not represent revenues recognized in the scope of ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (December 31, 2023 - $
147
million).
Loans
The following table summarizes the activities of the Company’s allowance for credit losses related to uncollectible loans receivable:
97
Table of Contents
The following table presents the delinquency status of the gross amount of merchant loans by year of origination. The delinquency status is determined based on the number of days past the contractual or expected repayment date for which the Company anticipates to receive the amounts outstanding. The "current" category represents balances that are within 29 days of the contractual repayment dates, or within 29 days of the expected repayment date.
The Company maintains an internal monitoring list related to its outstanding loans. A merchant's ability and willingness to repay the financing receivables outstanding under the program is analyzed for a variety of factors that include, but are not limited to current or expected age of the financing, merchant subscription or financing status, merchant GMV trends and other changes to merchant credit profiles.
Merchant Cash Advances
The following table summarizes the activities of the Company’s allowance for credit losses related to uncollectible merchant cash advances receivable:
98
Table of Contents
9.
Other Current Assets
10.
Property and Equipment
(1)
$
12
million of leasehold improvements that were impaired and disposed of in the year ended December 31, 2023. See Note 11 for details.
During the year ended December 31, 2024, the Company disposed of and retired computer equipment with an original cost of $
8
million (December 31, 2023 - $
6
million). There was
no
material gain or loss recognized in the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss) as a result of the retirement and disposal of these assets.
The following table illustrates the classification of depreciation in the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss):
99
Table of Contents
11.
Leases
The Company has office and commercial leases in North America, Europe and Asia. These leases have remaining lease terms of
2
to
12
years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to
5
years. All of the Company's leases are operating leases.
The components of lease expense were as follows:
As of December 31, 2024, the weighted average remaining lease term is
9
years and the weighted average discount rate is
3.4
% (December 31, 2023 -
10
years and
3.4
%).
Net sublease income for the year ended December 31, 2024 was $
6
million (December 31, 2023 - $
4
million, December 31, 2022 - $
3
million), which is recorded as an offset within the total lease expense disclosed above.
During the year ended December 31, 2023, as part of the sales of Shopify's logistics businesses, the Company's warehouse leases were assigned in connection with the divested businesses and are no longer recognized on the Company's consolidated balance sheets. However, the Company retained the guarantee of certain leases and entered into an indemnification agreement, governing the liability obligations in connection with these guarantees.
During the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, the Company identified leased office space for which it has ceased use. This resulted in impairment charges to its right-of-use assets and leasehold improvements. These impairment charges were determined by comparing the asset groups' fair values made up of the right-of-use assets and leasehold improvements, to their carrying values as of the impairment measurement date, as required under ASC 360, Property, Plant and Equipment. Fair value was determined based on the present value of the estimated future cash flows. These charges were recorded as general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss). In the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, the Company recorded impairment charges related to its operating lease right-of-use assets and leasehold improvements of $
38
million and $
81
million, respectfully.
Maturities of lease liabilities as of December 31, 2024 were as follows:
100
Table of Contents
Operating lease maturity amounts included in the table above do not include sublease proceeds expected to be received under our various sublease agreements with third parties. Under the agreements initiated with third parties, the Company expects to receive sublease proceeds of $
7
million in 2025 and $
18
million in the years 2026, 2027, 2028 and thereafter.
During the year ended December 31, 2024, the Company recognized $
7
million of operating lease liabilities arising from obtaining operating lease right-of-use assets (December 31, 2023 - $
22
million). The Company paid $
35
million for amounts included in the measurement of operating lease liabilities included in cash flow from operating activities (December 31, 2023 - $
34
million).
12.
Intangible Assets
During the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, the Company completed individually immaterial acquisitions that resulted in intangible assets being recognized.
During the year December 31, 2023, the Company recognized an
impairment
of $
307
million of acquired technology, $
27
million of acquired customer relationships and $
3
million of other intangible assets as a result of the sales of Shopify's logistics businesses (see Note 4).
During the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company disposed of and retired software development costs, acquired technology and purchased software with a combined original cost of $
440
million, primarily due to the sales of our logistics businesses (December 31, 2022 - $
31
million). Other than the impairment charges noted above, there was
no
additional gain or loss recognized in the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss) as a result of the retirement or disposal of these assets.
The following table illustrates the classification of amortization expense related to intangible assets in the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss):
101
Table of Contents
Estimated future amortization expense related to intangible assets, as of December 31, 2024 is as follows:
13.
Goodwill
The Company's goodwill relates to acquisitions of various companies.
No
goodwill impairment was recognized in the year ended December 31, 2024. The Company recognized goodwill impairment of $
1,438
million in the year ended December 31, 2023 due to the sales of Shopify's logistics businesses in the second quarter of 2023.
The remaining goodwill was tested for impairment as part of the Company's annual impairment test as of September 30, 2024. The Company exercised its option to bypass the qualitative assessment pursuant to ASC 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other, and performed a quantitative analysis. The Company determined that the consolidated business is represented by a single reporting unit and concluded the estimated fair value of the reporting unit, determined using market capitalization, was greater than its carrying amount.
The gross changes in the carrying amount of goodwill during the year ended December 31, 2024 and year ended December 31, 2023 are as follows:
(1)
During the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, the Company completed individually immaterial acquisitions that resulted in goodwill being recognized.
14.
Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities
102
Table of Contents
15.
Deferred Revenue
(1)
Deferral of revenue includes only the portion of collections from merchant billings throughout the year, primarily related to subscription fees, for which the services have not yet been provided. The amounts primarily exclude subscription revenue that has both been deferred and recognized within the period presented.
(2)
Includes impairment of deferred revenue due to the sales of Shopify's logistics businesses (see Note 4) during the year ended December 31, 2023.
The opening balances of current and long-term deferred revenue were $
296
million and $
268
million, respectively, as of January 1, 2023.
As of December 31, 2024, the long-term deferred revenue, excluding non-cash consideration received, will be recognized ratably over the remaining terms of the contracts with the customers, which range from
two
to
three years
.
The Company has received non-cash consideration in the form of equity investments in exchange for services to be rendered as part of strategic partnerships. As the Company is required to provide referral services and other services to support the partners' merchant offerings over the period of the performance obligations, revenue is deferred and recognized over time on a ratable basis over the expected terms of the contracts.
The table below summarizes the gross changes in deferred revenue associated with this non-cash consideration received for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023:
The Company will recognize this revenue ratably over the remaining terms of the respective strategic partnership service agreements, which range from
one
to
five years
.
103
Table of Contents
16.
Convertible Senior Notes
In September 2020, the Company issued $
920
million aggregate principal amount of
0.125
% convertible senior notes due 2025. The net proceeds from the issuance of the Notes were $
908
million after deducting underwriting fees and offering costs.
The interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on May 1 and November 1 of each year, beginning on May 1, 2021. The Notes will mature on November 1, 2025, unless earlier redeemed or repurchased by the Company or converted pursuant to their terms.
The Notes have a conversion rate of 6.9440 Class A subordinate voting shares per one thousand dollars of principal amount of Notes, which is equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $
144.01
per share, adjusted to give effect to the Share Split. The conversion rate is subject to adjustment following the occurrence of certain specified events, as set out or defined in the supplemental indenture governing the Notes. In addition, upon the occurrence of a make-whole fundamental change prior to the maturity date or upon our issuance of a notice of redemption, as set out or defined in the supplemental indenture governing the Notes, the Company will, in certain circumstances, increase the conversion rate by a number of additional Class A subordinate voting shares for a holder that elects to convert its Notes in connection with such make-whole fundamental change or during the relevant redemption period.
Prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding August 1, 2025, the Notes may be convertible at the option of the holders only under the following circumstances:
(1)
during any calendar quarter commencing after March 31, 2021, and only during such calendar quarter, if the last reported sale price of the Class A subordinate voting shares on the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") for at least
20
trading days (whether or not consecutive) in a period of
30
consecutive trading days ending on, and including, the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter is more than or equal to
130
% of the conversion price for the Notes on each applicable trading day;
(2)
during the
ten
business day period after any
ten
consecutive trading day period in which, for each trading day of that period, the trading price per one thousand dollars principal amount of Notes for each trading day was less than
98
% of the product of the last reported sale price of the Class A subordinate voting shares on the NYSE and the conversion rate for the Notes on each such trading day;
(3)
if the Company calls any or all of the Notes for optional redemption, clean-up redemption or tax redemption, at any time prior to the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the redemption date; or
(4)
upon the occurrence of certain specified corporate events.
On or after August 1, 2025, until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders of the Notes may, at their option, convert all or any portion of their Notes regardless of the foregoing conditions.
Upon conversion, the Company can elect to settle in cash, Class A subordinate voting shares or a combination of cash and Class A subordinate voting shares.
On or after September 15, 2023, the Company may, at its option, redeem for cash all or any portion of the Notes if the last reported sale price of the Company's Class A subordinate voting shares on the NYSE has been at least
130
% of the conversion price then in effect for at least
20
trading days (whether or not consecutive) during any
30
consecutive trading day period (including the last trading day of such period) ending on, and including, the trading day immediately preceding the date on which the Company provides notice of redemption at a redemption price equal to
100
% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date. No "sinking fund" is provided for the Notes.
The Company may redeem for cash all, but not less than all, of the Notes at any time if less than $
80
million aggregate principal amount of Notes remains outstanding at such time, at a redemption price equal to
100
% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date.
104
Table of Contents
The Company may redeem all, but not less than all, of the Notes if the Company has or would become obligated to pay to the holder of any Note additional amounts (which are more than a de minimis amount) as a result of a change in applicable Canadian tax laws or regulations after September 15, 2020 at a redemption price equal to
100
% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest (including additional interest, if any) to, but excluding, the applicable redemption date but without reduction for applicable Canadian taxes (except in respect of certain excluded holders).
Upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as set out or defined in the supplemental indenture governing the Notes) prior to the maturity date of the Notes, the Company, subject to limited exceptions, will be required to offer to purchase all of the Notes for cash at a price equal to
100
% of the principal amount thereof, plus any accrued and unpaid interest thereon to, but excluding, the fundamental change purchase date.
The Notes are governed by customary terms and covenants, including that upon certain events of default occurring and continuing, either the Trustee or the holders of at least
25
% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding may declare
100
% of the principal of, and accrued and unpaid interest on, all the Notes to be due and payable immediately.
The Notes are senior unsecured obligations and will rank senior in right of payment to any of the Company’s indebtedness that is expressly subordinated in right of payment to the Notes; equal in right of payment with the Company’s existing and future unsecured liabilities that are not so subordinated; effectively subordinated to any of the Company’s secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness; and structurally junior to all indebtedness and other liabilities (including trade payables) of current or future subsidiaries of the Company.
The Company accounts for the Notes as a single unit of account on the balance sheet. The carrying value of the liability is represented by the face amount of the Notes, less total offering costs, plus any amortization of offering costs. Total offering costs upon issuance of the Notes were $
12
million and are amortized to interest expense using the effective interest rate method over the contractual term of the Notes. Interest expense is recognized at an annual effective interest rate of
0.38
% over the contractual term of the Notes.
The net carrying amount of the outstanding Notes was as follows:
As of December 31, 2024, the net carrying amount of the outstanding Notes with contractual maturity less than one year are classified as current "Convertible senior notes" in the consolidated balance sheets (December 31, 2023 - classified as long-term "Convertible senior notes").
The following table sets forth the interest expense recognized related to the outstanding Notes:
As of December 31, 2024, the estimated fair value of the Notes was approximately $
939
million (December 31, 2023 - $
865
million). The estimated fair value was determined based on the last executed trade for the Notes of the reporting period in an over-the-counter market, which is considered as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
105
Table of Contents
17.
Commitments and Contingencies
Unconditional Purchase Obligations
The Company has entered into agreements where it commits to usage levels related to third-party services with an annual minimum fixed unconditional purchase obligation of $
200
million. The amount of the minimum fixed and determinable portion of the unconditional purchase obligations over the next three years, as of December 31, 2024, was $
468
million.
Litigation and Loss Contingencies
From time to time, the Company may become a party to litigation and subject to claims incidental to the ordinary course of business, including intellectual property claims, labor and employment claims and threatened claims, breach of contract claims, tax and other matters.
In the third quarter of 2022, a jury in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware returned a verdict finding that the Company infringed
three
web technology patents owned by Express Mobile, Inc. and the Company recorded an estimated liability in that period for damages and potential interest of $
55
million. The Company filed a post-trial motion for judgment as a matter of law. In the second quarter of 2024, the court granted that motion, vacating the jury verdict in its entirety and mooting the plaintiff's motion for pre- and post-judgement interest.
As a result of this decision, the Company has reversed the previously recorded liability in the twelve months ended December 31, 2024 within "General and administrative" in the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss), as a loss contingency was no longer considered probable.
The Company records accruals for loss contingencies when losses are probable and reasonably estimable. The Company currently has no material pending litigation or claims. The Company is not aware of any litigation matters or loss contingencies that would be expected to have a material adverse effect on the business, consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
18.
Related Parties
The Company has a commercial agreement with Flexport, a company in which it has an equity method investment. The Company earns a share of revenues for orders processed or otherwise sent through services provided by Shopify. The Company recognized $
nil
revenue in the years ended December 31, 2024, related to this agreement. In the first quarter of 2024, the Company commenced a separate agreement with Flexport to provide co-marketing services for the coordinated marketing of fulfillment-related products and services to current and prospective merchants. In the year ended December 31, 2024, the Company recognized $
4
million of expense in the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss) and $
11
million in "Other current assets" in the consolidated balance sheets related to this agreement.
In December 2023, the Company made a separate investment in Flexport with the purchase of convertible notes of $
260
million. The Company has selected to account for it using the fair value option for the investment, which is classified within "Equity and other investments". In the year ended December 31, 2024, the Company recognized $
32
million of interest income related to the convertible note within "Interest income" and an immaterial amount of unrealized losses in the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss), resulting in a fair value of $
291
million as of December 31, 2024.
19.
Shareholders’ Equity
Founder Share
On June 7, 2022, the Company's shareholders approved an update to the Company's governance structure pursuant to a plan of arrangement (the "Arrangement"). Under the terms of the Arrangement, on June 9, 2022 the Company created a new class of share, designated as the Founder share, and issued such Founder share to Tobias Lütke. The Founder share provides Mr. Lütke with a variable number of votes that, when combined with the Class B multiple voting shares (which are now described as Class B restricted voting shares as a result of the Company's updated governance structure) beneficially owned
106
Table of Contents
by him, his immediate family and his affiliates, represents
40
% of the aggregate voting power attached to all of the Company's outstanding shares.
Share Split
On June 7, 2022, the Company's shareholders approved a
ten
-for-one split of the Company's Class A subordinate voting shares and Class B restricted voting shares. Each shareholder of record on June 22, 2022 received nine additional Class A subordinate voting shares and Class B restricted voting shares, as applicable, for every one share held, distributed after close of trading on June 28, 2022. All share and per share amounts presented herein have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the impact of the Share Split.
Common Stock Authorized
The Company is authorized to issue an unlimited number of Class A subordinate voting shares, an unlimited number of Class B restricted voting shares and
one
Founder share. The Class A subordinate voting shares have
one
vote per share, the Class B restricted voting shares have
10
votes per share and the Founder share has a variable number of votes per share. The Class B restricted voting shares are convertible into Class A subordinate voting shares on a
one
-for-one basis at the option of the holder. Class B restricted voting shares will also automatically convert into Class A subordinate voting shares in certain other circumstances. The Founder share cannot convert into either Class A subordinate voting shares or Class B restricted voting shares.
Preferred Shares Authorized
The Company is authorized to issue an unlimited number of preferred shares issuable in series. Each series of preferred shares shall consist of such number of shares and having such rights, privileges, restrictions and conditions as may be determined by the Company’s Board of Directors prior to the issuance thereof. Holders of preferred shares, except as otherwise provided in the terms specific to a series of preferred shares or as required by law, will not be entitled to vote at meetings of holders of shares.
Stock-Based Compensation
In 2008, the Board of Directors adopted and the Company’s shareholders approved the Legacy Option Plan. Immediately prior to the completion of the Company’s May 2015 Initial Public Offering ("IPO"), and in connection with the closing of the offering, each option outstanding under the Legacy Option Plan became exercisable for
one
Class B restricted voting share. Following the closing of the Company’s IPO, no further awards were made under the Legacy Option Plan. The Legacy Option Plan continues to govern awards granted thereunder.
The Company’s Board of Directors and shareholders approved a stock option plan ("SOP"), as well as a long term incentive plan ("LTIP"), each of which became effective upon the closing of the Company's IPO on May 27, 2015. On May 30, 2018, May 26, 2021 and June 4, 2024 these plans were amended following approval from the Company’s Board of Directors and shareholders.
On July 8, 2022, the Company approved the issuance of rollover options, from the Company's treasury pool, under the Deliverr, Inc. 2017 Stock Option and Grant Plan, adopted on the closing of the acquisition of Deliverr.
The SOP allows for the grant of options to the Company’s officers, directors, employees and consultants. All options granted under the SOP will have an exercise price determined and approved by the Company’s Compensation and Talent Management Committee of the Board of Directors at the time of grant, which shall not be less than the market price of the Class A subordinate voting shares at such time. For purposes of the SOP, the market price of the Class A subordinate voting shares shall be the volume weighted average trading price of the Class A subordinate voting shares on the NYSE for the
five
trading days ending on the last trading day before the day on which the option is granted. Options granted under the SOP are exercisable for Class A subordinate voting shares. Both the vesting period and term of the options in the SOP are determined by the Compensation and Talent Management Committee of the Board of Directors at the time of grant. Options granted under the SOP between
107
Table of Contents
November 2017 and August 2022 have been approved with a
three year
vesting schedule with one-third vesting after one year and the remainder vesting evenly over the remaining
24
months. As a result of Flex Comp, certain options in the aforementioned plans were forfeited and their associated vesting schedules were ended. For employees that allocated a portion of their new total compensation reward to obtain options, such options are granted quarterly and generally vest on a monthly basis over a period of
three months
, or if allocated to the long-term equity component, generally vest over a
three year
period.
The LTIP provides for the grant of share units, or LTIP Units, consisting of RSUs, performance share units (PSUs) and deferred share units (DSUs). Each LTIP Unit represents the right to receive
one
Class A subordinate voting share in accordance with the terms of the LTIP. Unless otherwise approved by the Compensation and Talent Management Committee of the Board of Directors, RSUs granted between November 2017 and August 2022 have been approved with
three-year
vesting schedules, with 1/3 vesting on each anniversary following the date of grant. As a result of employee compensation plan, certain RSUs were forfeited and their associated vesting schedules were ended. For employees that allocated a portion of their new total compensation reward to obtain RSUs, the RSUs are granted quarterly and generally vest on a monthly basis over the period of
three months
or if allocated to the long-term equity component, generally vest over a
three year
period.. A PSU participant’s grant agreement will describe the performance criteria established by the Company’s Compensation and Talent Committee of the Board of Directors that must be achieved for PSUs to vest to the PSU participant, provided the participant is continuously employed by or in the Company’s service or the service or employment of any of the Company’s affiliates from the date of grant until such PSU vesting date. As of December 31, 2024, there have been
no
PSUs granted. DSUs are granted solely to non-employee directors of the Company, at their option, in lieu of their Board retainer fees. DSUs will vest upon a director ceasing to act as a director.
The maximum number of Class A subordinate voting shares reserved for issuance, in the aggregate, under the Company's SOP and the LTIP was initially equal to
37,436,920
Class A subordinate voting shares, adjusted to give effect to Share Split. The number of Class A subordinate voting shares available for issuance, in the aggregate, under the SOP and the LTIP will be automatically increased on January 1st of each year, beginning on January 1, 2016 and ending on January 1, 2026, in an amount equal to
5
% of the aggregate number of outstanding Class A subordinate voting shares and Class B restricted voting shares on December 31st of the preceding calendar year. As of January 1, 2025, there were
475,654,042
shares available for issuance under the Company's SOP and LTIP.
108
Table of Contents
The following table summarizes the stock option and RSU award activities under the Company's share-based compensation plans for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023:
(1)
As of December 31, 2024
14,340
of the outstanding stock options were granted under the Company's Fourth Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan ("Legacy Option Plan") and are exercisable for Class B restricted voting shares,
14,535,048
of the outstanding stock options were granted under the Company's SOP and are exercisable for Class A subordinate voting shares, and
87,604
of the outstanding stock options were granted under the Deliverr 2017 Stock Option and Grant Plan and are exercisable for Class A subordinate voting shares.
(2)
The aggregate intrinsic value is calculated as the difference between the exercise price of the underlying stock option awards and the closing market price of the Company's Class A subordinate voting shares as of December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023.
As of December 31, 2024 the Company had issued
14,615
DSUs under its LTIP.
The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised and RSUs settled during the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 was $
609
million and $
564
million, respectively. The aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised is calculated as the difference between the exercise price of the underlying stock option awards and the market value on the date of exercise.
As of December 31, 2024 and 2023, there was $
487
million and $
261
million, respectively, of remaining unamortized compensation cost related to unvested stock options and RSUs granted to the Company’s employees. This cost will be recognized over an estimated weighted-average remaining period of
2.20
years. Total unamortized compensation cost will be adjusted for future changes in estimated forfeitures.
Stock-Based Compensation Expense
All share-based awards are measured based on the grant date fair value of the awards and recognized in the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss) over the period during which the employee is required to perform services in exchange for the award (generally the vesting period of the award).
109
Table of Contents
The Company estimates the fair value of stock options granted using the Black-Scholes option valuation model, which requires assumptions, including the fair value of the Company's underlying common stock, expected term, expected volatility, risk-free interest rate and dividend yield of the Company's Class A subordinate voting shares. These estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management’s judgment. If factors change and different assumptions are used, share-based compensation expense could be materially different in the future.
These assumptions are estimated as follows:
•
Fair Value of Common Stock.
The Company uses the five-day volume weighted average price for its Class A subordinate voting shares as reported on the New York Stock Exchange.
•
Expected Term.
The Company determines the expected term based on the average period the stock options are expected to remain outstanding. The Company bases the expected term assumptions on its historical behavior combined with estimates of the post-vesting holding period.
•
Expected Volatility.
The Company determines the price volatility factor based on the Company's historical volatility over the expected term of the stock options.
•
Risk-Free Interest Rate.
The Company bases the risk-free interest rate used in the Black-Scholes valuation model on the yield available on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with an equivalent remaining term of the stock options for each stock option group.
•
Expected Dividend.
The Company has not paid and does not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future and, therefore, uses an expected dividend yield of
zero
in the option pricing model.
The grant weighted average assumptions used to estimate the fair value of stock options granted to employees were as follows:
In addition to the assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option valuation model, the Company also estimates a forfeiture rate to calculate the share-based compensation expense for our awards. The Company's forfeiture rate is based on an analysis of its actual forfeitures. The Company will continue to evaluate the appropriateness of the forfeiture rate based on actual forfeiture experience, analysis of employee turnover, and other factors. Changes in the estimated forfeiture rate can have a significant impact on share-based compensation expense as the cumulative effect of adjusting the rate is recognized in the period the forfeiture estimate is changed. If a revised forfeiture rate is higher/lower than the previously estimated forfeiture rate, an adjustment is made that will result in an increase/decrease to the share-based compensation expense recognized in the consolidated financial statements.
110
Table of Contents
The following table illustrates the classification of stock-based compensation in the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss), which includes both stock-based compensation and restricted share-based compensation expense:
(1)
Includes accelerated stock-based compensation of $
5
million and $
164
million in sales and marketing and research and development, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2023
.
20.
Changes in Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income
The following table summarizes the changes in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income, which is reported as a component of shareholders’ equity, were as follows:
111
Table of Contents
21.
Income Taxes
The domestic and foreign components of income (loss) before income taxes and (provision for) recovery of income taxes were as follows:
The reconciliation of the expected income tax (expense) recovery calculated using the statutory tax rate to the actual (provision for) recovery of income taxes reported in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022 is as follows:
(1)
Our Canadian corporate tax rate is comprised of a basic Part I federal tax rate of 38%, net 15% after federal tax abatement and general tax reduction, plus the additional provincial tax of 11.5%.
112
Table of Contents
The significant components of the Company’s deferred income tax assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2024 and 2023 were as follows:
During the year ended December 31, 2024, the Company assessed whether a valuation allowance should be established or maintained against its deferred tax assets, based on consideration of all available positive and negative evidence, using a "more-likely-than-not" standard. The factors the Company uses to assess the likelihood of realization are its recent operating results, historical losses and the cumulative losses, forecasts of future pre-tax income and tax planning strategies that could be implemented to realize the deferred tax assets.
The Company had a provision for income taxes of $
209
million in the year ended December 31, 2024, on account of earnings and unrealized gains on the company's equity and other investments, net of an offset to the reversal of valuation allowance.
During the year ended December 31, 2024, there were significant unrealized gains on the Company's equity and other investments resulting in a deferred tax expense. As a result, a portion of the valuation allowance was reversed which partially offset the deferred tax expense in the current year.
During the year ended December 31, 2024, the Company performed a U.S. state tax sourcing analysis that resulted in a change to our U.S. state tax apportionment. This also resulted in a reduction in deferred tax assets, including unused non-capital tax losses, that were fully offset by a valuation allowance.
The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development continues to advance efforts with respect to the global minimum tax framework ("Pillar Two"). On June 20, 2024, Canada enacted legislation in accordance with the Pillar Two framework. Many countries have also enacted or are expected to enact Pillar Two legislation. The Company continues to monitor the development and implementation of these rules both in local countries and on a multilateral basis, making it uncertain to predict the ultimate impact in the future. For the year ended December 31, 2024, the Company has recorded incremental tax relating to Pillar Two in the amount of $
18
million.
113
Table of Contents
During the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company had a provision for income taxes of $
53
million, primarily on account of earnings in jurisdictions outside of North America.
During the year ended December 31, 2022, as a result of the application of the Company's tax rates to the results of ongoing operations, other discrete items primarily related to unrealized non-deductible losses on equity and other investments, share-based compensation and change in valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets in Canada as well as the United States, the Company had a recovery for income taxes of $
163
million.
During the year ended December 31, 2022, and following the reversal of a large portion of the unrealized gains on the Company’s equity and other investments, a valuation allowance was recorded against the excess of the Company's Canadian deferred income tax assets relative to its deferred income tax liabilities as the Company has a history of operating losses.
The Company receives a development and expansion incentive under the International Headquarters Award in Singapore. The incentives granted by the authorities to the Company expires March 31, 2026 and provide a concessionary tax rate of
5
% to earnings in excess of the base income threshold. As a result of the incentive, the Company received an aggregate tax benefit of $
21
million, $
9
million and $
2
million during the year ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
The Company had no material uncertain income tax positions for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023. The Company's accounting policy is to recognize interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions as a component of income tax expense. In the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, there was no material interest or penalties related to uncertain tax positions.
The Company remains subject to audit by the relevant tax authorities for the years ended 2017 through 2024.
Investment tax credits, which are earned as a result of qualifying research and development expenditures, are recognized and applied to reduce income tax expense in the year in which the expenditures are made and their realization is reasonably assured.
As of December 31, 2024 and 2023, the Company had Canadian unused non-capital tax losses of approximately $
5
million and $
117
million, respectively. As of December 31, 2024 and 2023, the Company had U.S. federal unused non-capital tax losses of approximately $
306
million and $
383
million, respectively. In addition, as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, the Company had unused non-capital tax losses in various U.S. states of approximately $
339
million and $
1.5
billion, respectively. As of December 31, 2024, $
272
million and $
6
million of the federal and state non-capital tax losses, respectively, have no expiry. The remaining unused federal and state non-capital tax losses of $
34
million and $
333
million, respectively, will begin to expire starting in 2031. As of December 31, 2024, the Company also has $
761
million of capital losses in Canada that do not expire as well as $
1.7
billion of capital losses in the U.S. that expires in 2028. In addition, as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, the Company had an undeducted Canadian research and development expenditure balance totaling $
nil
and $
226
million, respectively. As of December 31, 2024 and 2023, the Company had Canadian and U.S. federal and state tax credits of $
33
million and $
104
million, respectively. The unused U.S. federal tax credits will begin to expire in 2042 and the unused U.S. state research and development credits will begin to expire starting in 2029. The unused Canadian investment tax credits will begin to expire starting in 2043.
114
Table of Contents
22.
Net Income (Loss) per Share
The Company applies the two-class method to calculate its basic and diluted net loss per share as Class A subordinate voting shares and Class B restricted voting shares are participating securities with equal participation rights and are entitled to receive dividends on a share for share basis. The Company uses the treasury stock method and if-converted method for calculating the effect of dilutive potential common stock from employee stock options and employee RSUs and from its Notes, respectively.
The following table summarizes the reconciliation of the basic weighted average number of shares outstanding and the diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding:
(1)
When the Notes are dilutive, the after tax effect of debt interest is added back to net income to calculate diluted net income per share.
115
Table of Contents
23.
Segment and Geographical Information
The Company's CODM is its Chief Executive Officer. The CODM has determined that the Company operates in a single operating and reportable segment and manages segment performance and resource allocation based upon consolidated net income (loss). The measure of segment assets is reported on the consolidated balance sheet as total consolidated assets. Significant expenses reviewed by the CODM include those that are presented in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss).
The following table presents total external revenues by geographic location, based on the location of the Company’s merchants:
24.
Reduction in Workforce
In May 2023, the Company reduced headcount by approximately
23
% of employees across the Company ("2023 Reduction in Workforce"). The Company incurred and paid $
148
million in total severance related costs in the year ended December 31, 2023.
The 2023 Reduction in Workforce costs recorded for severance related costs in the year ended December 31, 2023 were as follows in US $ millions:
116
Table of Contents
Index to Exhibits
117
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
February 11, 2025
Shopify Inc.
118
Table of Contents
POWER OF ATTORNEY
KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each officer or director of Shopify Inc. whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Tobias Lütke, Jeff Hoffmeister, Jessica Hertz and Michael L. Johnson, and each of them, with full power to act without the other, his or her true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full and several power of substitution, for him or her and in his or her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as they or he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or his or her or their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
119