Table of Contents
PART II
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
Market Information for Common Stock
Our common stock has been listed on The Nasdaq Global Select Market under the ticker symbol "ZS"
since March 16, 2018. Prior to that time, there was no public market for our common stock.
Holders of Record
As of July 31, 2024, we had 51 holders of record of our common stock. The actual number of stockholders is greater than this number of record holders and includes stockholders who are beneficial owners but whose shares are held in street name by brokers and other nominees.
Dividend Policy
We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation of our business and do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination to declare dividends will be made at the discretion of our board of directors, subject to applicable laws, and will depend on our financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, general business conditions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant.
Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans
The information required by this item with respect to our equity compensation plans is incorporated by reference to our Proxy Statement for the 2024 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days of the fiscal year ended July 31, 2024.
Recent Sales of Unregistered Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
(a) Sale of Unregistered Equity Securities
None.
(b) Use of Proceeds
None.
(c) Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
None.
Stock Performance Graph
This performance graph shall not be deemed "soliciting material" or to be "filed" with the SEC for purposes of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of Zscaler, Inc. under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act.
This performance graph compares the cumulative total return to our stockholders to the Standard & Poor's 500 Index and Standard & Poor Information Technology Index for the five years ended July 31, 2024. All values assume a $100 initial
59
Table of Contents
investment and data for the Standard & Poor's 500 Index and Standard & Poor Information Technology Index assume reinvestment of dividends. The comparisons are based on historical data and are not indicative of, nor intended to forecast, the future performance of our common stock.
_____
(*)
Base period.
60
Table of Contents
Item 6. Reserved
61
Table of Contents
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As discussed in the section titled "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed below. Factors that could cause or contribute to such difference include, but are not limited to, those identified below and those discussed in the section titled "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our fiscal year end is July 31, and our fiscal quarters end on October 31, January 31, April 30 and July 31
.
Our fiscal year ended July 31, 2024, July 31, 2023 and July 31, 2022 are referred to as fiscal 2024, fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022, respectively.
Overview
Zscaler was incorporated in 2007, during the early stages of cloud adoption and mobility, based on a vision that the internet would become the new corporate network as the cloud becomes the new data center. We predicted that with rapid cloud adoption and increasing workforce mobility, traditional perimeter security approaches would provide inadequate protection for users and data and an increasingly poor user experience. We pioneered a cloud platform, the Zscaler Zero Trust Exchange, that represents a fundamental shift in the architectural design and approach to networking and security.
We generate revenue primarily from sales of subscriptions to access our cloud platform, together with related support services. We also generate an immaterial amount of revenue from professional and other services, which consist primarily of fees associated with mapping, implementation, network design and training. Our subscription pricing is primarily calculated on a per-user basis. We recognize subscription and support revenue ratably over the life of the contract, which is generally one to three years. As of July 31, 2024, we had expanded our operations to over 8,650 customers across major industries, with users in over 185 countries. Government agencies and some of the largest enterprises in the world rely on us to support their digital transformation, including approximately 35% of the Forbes Global 2000 as of July 31, 2024.
We operate our business as one reportable segment. Our revenue has experienced significant growth in recent periods. For fiscal 2024, fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022, our revenue was $2,167.8 million, $1,617.0 million and $1,090.9 million, respectively. We have incurred net losses in all annual periods since our inception. For fiscal 2024, fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022, our net loss was $57.7 million, $202.3 million and $390.3 million, respectively. We expect we will continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future, as we continue to invest in our sales and marketing organization to maximize our market opportunity, to invest in research and development efforts to enhance the functionality of our cloud platform, and to address any legal matters and related accruals, as further described in Note 12, Commitments and Contingencies, of the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Impact of Macroeconomic Conditions
Recent changes in macroeconomic conditions such as high inflation, high interest rates and potential recessionary environments, geopolitical factors, such as the current conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and in the Middle East, and global health crises, such as the recent resurgence of the COVID-19 pandemic, can cause uncertainty in our business. We continue to see customer scrutiny of and elongated approval processes for transactions, particularly larger deals, as customers continue to scrutinize purchasing decisions and are requiring multiple approvals for large expenditures in response to the uncertain economic environment. These macroeconomic conditions may impact the future demand for subscriptions of our cloud platform.
62
Table of Contents
Certain Factors Affecting Our Performance
Increased Internet Traffic and Adoption of Cloud-Based Software and Security
The adoption of cloud applications and infrastructure, explosion of internet traffic volumes and shift to mobile-first computing generally, and the pace at which enterprises adopt the internet as their corporate network in particular, impact our ability to drive market adoption of our cloud platform. We believe that most enterprises are in the early stages of a broad transformation to the cloud. Organizations are increasingly relying on the internet to operate their businesses, deploying new SaaS applications and migrating internally managed line-of-business applications to the cloud. However, the growing dependence on the internet has increased exposure to malicious or compromised websites, and sophisticated hackers are exploiting the gaps left by legacy network security appliances. To securely access the internet and transform their networks, organizations must also make fundamental changes in their network and security architectures. We believe that most organizations have yet to fully make these investments. As our cloud platform enables organizations to securely embrace digital transformation, we believe that the imperative for organizations to securely move to the cloud will increase demand for our cloud platform and broaden our customer base.
New Customer Acquisition
We believe that our ability to increase the number of customers, and more significantly customers in the Forbes Global 2000, on our cloud platform is an indicator of our market penetration and our future business opportunities. As of July 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, we had over 8,650, 7,700 and 6,700 customers, respectively, across all major geographies. As of July 31, 2024, we had approximately 35% of the Forbes Global 2000 as customers. Our ability to continue to grow these numbers will increase our future opportunities for renewals and follow-on sales. We believe that we have significant room to capture additional market share and intend to continue to invest significantly in sales and marketing to engage our prospective customers, increase brand awareness, further leverage our channel partnerships and drive adoption of our solution. However, as a result of the challenging and uncertain economic environment, potential new customers are carefully considering purchasing decisions, particularly for large expenditures. We expect customer cautiousness to continue in the near term, elongating our sales cycles and the timing of large deals.
Follow-On Sales
We typically expand our relationship with our customers over time. While most of our new customers route all of their internet-bound web traffic through our cloud platform, some of our customers initially use our services for specific users or specific security functionality. We leverage our land-and-expand model with the goal of generating incremental revenue, often within the term of the initial subscription, by increasing sales to our existing customers in one of three ways:
•
expanding deployment of our cloud platform to cover additional users;
•
upgrading to more advanced capabilities for their current purchases; and
•
selling a subscription to a new solution or product, for example selling a ZPA subscription to a ZIA customer or a ZIA subscription to a ZPA customer.
These purchases increase the annual recurring revenue, or ARR, attributable to our customers over time. To establish ARR for a customer, we use the total amount of each order booked to compute the annual recurring value of revenue that we would recognize if the customer continues to renew all contractual subscriptions. For example, a contract for $3.0 million with a contractual term of three years would have an ARR of $1.0 million as long as our customer uses our cloud platform.
63
Table of Contents
Investing in Business Growth
Since our founding, we have invested significantly in growing our business. We intend to continue (i) investing in our research and development organization and our development efforts to offer new solutions on our cloud platform and (ii) dedicating resources to update and upgrade our existing solutions. In addition, we expect our general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the foreseeable future, as we continue to operate as a public company, and address any legal matters and related accruals, as further described in Note 12, Commitments and Contingencies, of the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We also intend to continue to invest significantly in sales and marketing to grow and train our sales force, broaden our brand awareness and expand and deepen our channel partner relationships. While these planned investments will increase our operating expenses in the short term, we believe that over the long term these investments will help us to expand our customer base and grow our business. We also are investing in programs to increase recognition of our brand and solutions, including joint marketing activities with our channel partners and strategic partners.
While we expect our operating expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the foreseeable future, as a result of these activities, we intend to balance these investments in future growth with a continued focus on managing our results of operations and investing judiciously. In the long term we anticipate that these investments will positively impact our business and results of operations.
Key Business Metrics and Other Financial Measures
We review a number of operating and financial metrics, including the following key metrics, to measure our performance, identify trends, formulate business plans and make strategic decisions.
Dollar-Based Net Retention Rate
We believe that dollar-based net retention rate is an indicator to measure the long-term value of our customer relationships because it is driven by our ability to retain and expand the recurring revenue generated from our existing customers. Our dollar-based net retention rate compares the recurring revenue from a set of customers against the same metric for the prior 12-month period on a trailing basis. Because our customers have repeat buying patterns and the average term of our contracts is more than 12 months, we measure this metric over a set of customers who were with us as of the last day of the same reporting period in the prior fiscal year. For the trailing 12 months ended July 31, 2024 and 2023, the dollar-based net retention rate was 115% and 121%, respectively.
We calculate our dollar-based net retention rate as follows:
•
Denominator: To calculate our dollar-based net retention rate as of the end of a reporting period, we first establish the ARR from all active subscriptions as of the last day of the same reporting period in the prior fiscal year. This effectively represents recurring dollars that we expect in the next 12-month period from the cohort of customers that existed on the last day of the same reporting period in the prior fiscal year.
•
Numerator: We measure the ARR for that same cohort of customers representing all subscriptions based on confirmed customer orders booked by us as of the end of the reporting period.
Dollar-based net retention rate is obtained by dividing the numerator by the denominator. Our dollar-based net retention rate may fluctuate due to a number of factors, including the performance of our cloud platform, our success in selling bigger deals, including deals for all employees with our higher-end bundles, selling multiple-pillars from the start of our contract with new customers, faster upsells within a year, the timing and the rate of ARR expansion of our existing
64
Table of Contents
customers, potential changes in our rate of renewals and other risk factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In addition to our results determined in accordance with GAAP, we believe the following non-GAAP measures are useful in evaluating our operating performance. We use the following non-GAAP financial information to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe that non-GAAP financial information, when taken collectively, may be helpful to investors because it provides consistency and comparability with past financial performance. However, non-GAAP financial information is presented for supplemental informational purposes only, has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP. In particular, free cash flow is not a substitute for cash provided by operating activities. Additionally, the utility of free cash flow as a measure of our liquidity is further limited as it does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for a given period. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate similarly-titled non-GAAP measures differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of our non-GAAP financial measures as tools for comparison. A reconciliation is provided below for each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with GAAP. Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business.
Non-GAAP Gross Profit and Non-GAAP Gross Margin
We define non-GAAP gross profit as GAAP gross profit excluding stock-based compensation expense and related payroll taxes and amortization expense of acquired intangible assets. We define non-GAAP gross margin as non-GAAP gross profit as a percentage of revenue.
Non-GAAP Income from Operations and Non-GAAP Operating Margin
We define non-GAAP income from operations as GAAP loss from operations excluding stock-based compensation expense and related payroll taxes, amortization expense of acquired intangible assets, and restructuring and other charges. We define non-GAAP operating margin as non-GAA
P income from operations as a percentage of revenue.
65
Table of Contents
(1)
In connection with a restructuring plan announced in March 2023, we incurred stock-based compensation expense of approximately $1.0 million, which is included in stock-based compensation expense and related payroll taxes.
Free Cash Flow and Free Cash Flow Margin
Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure that we calculate as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property, equipment and other assets and capitalized internal-use software. Free cash flow margin is calculated as free cash flow divided by revenue. We believe that free cash flow and free cash flow margin are useful indicators of liquidity that provide information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated from our operations that, after the investments in property, equipment and other assets and capitalized internal-use software, can be used for strategic initiatives, including investing in our business, and strengthening our financial position.
Free cash flow includes the cyclical impact of inflows and outflows resulting from contributions to our employee stock purchase plan for which the purchase period of approximately six months ends in each of our second and fourth fiscal quarters. Payroll contributions accrued as of July 31, 2024 will be used to purchase shares at the end of the current ESPP purchase period ending on December 16, 2024. Payroll contributions ultimately used to purchase shares are reclassified to stockholders' equity on the purchase date.
66
Table of Contents
Calculated Billings
Calculated billings is a non-GAAP financial measure that we believe is a key metric to measure our periodic performance. Calculated billings represents our total revenue plus the change in deferred revenue in a period. Calculated billings in any particular period aims to reflect amounts invoiced for subscriptions to access our cloud platform, together with related support services for our new and existing customers.
We typically invoice our customers annually in advance, and to a lesser extent quarterly in advance, monthly in advance or multi-year in advance.
Calculated billings increased $587.6 million, or 29%, in fiscal 2024 over fiscal 2023, and $554.0 million, or 37%, in fiscal 2023 over fiscal 2022. As calculated billings continues to grow in absolute terms, we expect our calculated billings growth rate to trend down over time. We also expect that calculated billings will be affected by seasonality in terms of when we enter into agreements with customers; and the mix of billings in each reporting period
.
Components of Results of Operations
Revenue
We generate revenue primarily from sales of subscriptions to access our cloud platform, together with related support services. Subscription and related support services accounted for approximately 97% of our revenue for all periods presented. Our contracts with our customers do not at any time provide the customer with the right to take possession of the software that runs our cloud platform. Our customers may also purchase professional services, such as mapping, implementation, network design and training. Professional services account for an immaterial portion of our revenue.
We generate revenue from contracts with typical durations ranging from one to three years. We typically invoice our customers annually in advance, and to a lesser extent quarterly in advance, monthly in advance or multi-year in advance. We
67
Table of Contents
recognize revenue ratably over the life of the contract. Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in deferred revenue, or they are recorded in revenue if the revenue recognition criteria have been met. Subscriptions that are invoiced annually in advance or multi-year in advance represent a significant portion of our short-term and long-term deferred revenue in comparison to invoices issued quarterly in advance or monthly in advance. Accordingly, we cannot predict the mix of invoicing schedules in any given period.
We generally experience seasonality in terms of when we enter into agreements with our customers. We typically enter into a higher percentage of agreements with new customers, as well as renewal agreements with existing customers, in the second half of our fiscal year. However, because we recognize revenue ratably over the terms of our subscription contracts, a substantial portion of the revenue that we report in each period is attributable to the recognition of deferred revenue relating to agreements that we entered into during previous periods. Consequently, increases or decreases in new sales or renewals in any one period may not be immediately reflected as revenue for that period. Accordingly, the effect of downturns in sales and market acceptance of our platform, and potential changes in our rate of renewals, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods.
Cost of Revenue
Cost of revenue includes expenses related to operating our cloud platform in data centers, depreciation of our data center equipment, amortization of our capitalized internal-use software, amortization of intangible assets acquired through our business acquisitions and allocated overhead expenses (i.e., facilities, IT, depreciation expense and amortization expense). Cost of revenue also includes employee-related expenses, including salaries, bonuses, stock-based compensation expense and employee benefit expenses associated with our customer support and cloud operations organizations.
As our customers expand and increase the use of our cloud platform, driven by additional applications and connected devices, our cost of revenue will increase due to higher bandwidth and data center expenses. However, we expect to continue to benefit from economies of scale as our customers increase the use of our cloud platform. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in our cloud platform and our customer support organizations as we grow our business. The level and timing of investment in these areas could affect our cost of revenue in the future.
Gross Profit and Gross Margin
Gross profit, or revenue less cost of revenue, and gross margin, or gross profit as a percentage of revenue, have been and will continue to be affected by various factors, including the timing of our acquisition of new customers and our renewals of and follow-on sales to existing customers, the average sales price of our services, mix of services offered in our solutions, including new product introductions, the data center and bandwidth costs associated with operating our cloud platform, the extent to which we expand our customer support and cloud operations organizations and the extent to which we can increase the efficiency of our technology, infrastructure and data centers through technological improvements. We expect our gross profit to increase in absolute dollars and our gross margin to increase slightly over the long term, although our gross profit and gross margin could fluctuate from period to period depending on the interplay of all of the above factors.
Operating Expenses
Our operating expenses consist of sales and marketing expenses, research and development expenses, general and administrative expenses and restructuring and other charges. Personnel expenses are the most significant component of operating expenses and consist of salaries, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation expense and, with respect to sales and marketing expenses, sales commissions that are recognized as expenses over the period of benefit. Operating expenses also include overhead expenses for facilities, IT, depreciation expense and amortization expense.
68
Table of Contents
Sales and Marketing
Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee compensation and related expenses, including salaries, bonuses and benefits for our sales and marketing employees, sales commissions that are recognized as expenses over the period of benefit, stock-based compensation expense, marketing programs, travel and entertainment expenses, expenses for conferences and events, amortization of intangible assets acquired through our business acquisitions and allocated overhead expenses. We capitalize our sales commissions and associated payroll taxes that are incremental to the acquisition of channel partner and direct customer contracts and recognize them as expenses over the estimated period of benefit. The amount recognized in our sales and marketing expenses reflects the amortization of expenses previously deferred as attributable to each period presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as described below under "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates."
We intend to continue to make significant investments in our sales and marketing organization to drive additional revenue, further penetrate the market and expand our global customer base. As a result, we expect our sales and marketing expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars and to be our largest operating expense category for the foreseeable future. In particular, we will continue to invest in growing and training our sales force, broadening our brand awareness and expanding and deepening our channel partner relationships. However, we expect our sales and marketing expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term, although our sales and marketing expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses.
Research and Development
Our research and development expenses support our efforts to add new products, new features to our existing offerings and to ensure the reliability, availability and scalability of our solutions. Our cloud platform is software-driven, and our research and development teams employ software engineers in the design, and the related development, testing, certification and support, of these solutions. Accordingly, a majority of our research and development expenses result from employee-related expenses, including salaries, bonuses and benefits, stock-based compensation expense and expenses associated with technology tools used by our engineers. We expect our research and development expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future, as we continue to invest in research and development efforts to enhance the functionality of our cloud platform, improve the reliability, availability and scalability of our platform and access new customer markets. However, we expect our research and development expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term, although our research and development expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses.
General and Administrative
General and administrative expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses, including salaries and bonuses, stock-based compensation expense and employee benefit expenses for our finance, legal, human resources and administrative personnel, as well as professional fees for external legal services (including certain litigation-related expenses), accounting and other related consulting services. The litigation-related expenses include professional fees and related expenses incurred by us in defending or settling significant claims that we deem not to be in the ordinary course of our business and, if applicable, accruals related to estimated losses in connection with these claims.
We expect our general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we increase the size of our general and administrative organizations, incur additional costs to support our business growth and due to any legal matters and related accruals, as further described in
Note 12, Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
However, we expect our general and administrative expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term, although our general and administrative expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. In particular, litigation-related expenses related
69
Table of Contents
to significant litigation claims may result in significant fluctuations from period to period, as they are inherently subject to change and difficult to estimate.
Restructuring and Other Charges
Restructuring and other charges occur when we commit to a restructuring plan, the restructuring plan identifies all significant actions, the period of time to complete the restructuring plan indicates that significant changes to the restructuring plan are not likely and employees who are impacted have been notified of the pending involuntary termination. A restructuring plan generally includes significant actions involving employee-related severance charges, employee-related benefits, stock-based compensation expense related to the modification of equity incentive awards and other charges associated with the restructuring (the "restructuring charges"). Restructuring charges are accrued in the period in which it is probable that the employees are entitled to the restructuring benefits and the amounts can be reasonably estimated.
Interest Expense
Interest expense consists primarily of amortization of debt issuance costs, recognition of contractual interest expense related to the Notes,
and gains and losses related to changes in the fair value of interest rate swaps
. For further information refer to
Note 8, Derivative Instruments and Note 10
, Convertible Senior Notes, of our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Effective August 1, 2022, we adopted ASU 2020-06. The adoption of this standard resulted in the elimination of the amortization of the debt discount as interest expense and the portion of the issuance costs initially allocated to equity is now classified as debt and amortized as interest expense. For further information, refer to Note 1, Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Interest Income
Interest income consists primarily of income earned on our cash equivalents and short-term investments.
Other Expense, Net
Other expense, net consists primarily of foreign currency transaction gains and losses and changes in fair value of our non-designated derivative instruments.
Provision for Income Taxes
Our provision for income taxes consists primarily of income and withholding taxes in the foreign jurisdictions,
and U.S. income taxes from a tax law change related to mandatory capitalization of research and development expenses for tax years starting January 1, 2022.
In the United States, we have recorded deferred tax assets for which we
provide a full valuation allowance, which includes net operating loss carryforwards and research and development tax credits. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance for the foreseeable future as it is more likely than not that some or all of those deferred tax assets may not be realized based on our history of losses.
Additionally, in the U.K., we have recorded deferred tax assets for which we provide a full valuation allowance, which includes net operating loss carryforwards. We expect to maintain this full valuation allowance for the foreseeable future as it is more likely than not that some or all of those deferred tax assets may not be realized based on our history of losses.
70
Table of Contents
Results of Operations
The following tables set forth our results of operations for the periods presented in dollars and as a percentage of our revenue:
(1)
Includes stock-based compensation expense and related payroll taxes as follows:
(2)
Includes amortization expense of acquired intangible assets as follows:
(5)
Effective August 1, 2022, we adopted ASU 2020-06 using the modified retrospective method under which prior period amounts have not been adjusted.
This standard resulted in our convertible senior notes being accounted for as a single unit of debt and we will no longer be required to record the conversion feature in equity. This further eliminated the need for amortization of the debt discount as interest expense and the portion of the issuance costs initially allocated to equity is now
71
Table of Contents
classified as debt and amortized as interest expense.
For further information refer to Note 1, Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods presented as a percentage of our revenue:
72
Table of Contents
Comparison of Fiscal 2024 and Fiscal 2023
Revenue
Revenue increased by $550.8 million, or 34%, in fiscal 2024, compared to fiscal 2023.
The change in revenue was driven primarily by
an increase in users and sales of additional subscriptions to existing customers, which contributed $471.8 million in additional revenue. The remainder of the increase
was primarily attributable to the addition of new customers, as we increased our customer bas
e by 12% f
rom
fiscal 2023
to
fiscal 2024
.
Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin
Cost of revenue increased by $114.3 million, or 32%, in fiscal 2024, compared to fiscal 2023. The change was driven primarily by the expanded use of our cloud platform by existing and new customers, which led to an increase of $70.2 million
for data center and equipment-related costs for hosting and operating our cloud platform. Additionally, our employee-related expenses increased by
$44.4 million
, inclusive of an increase of
$11.7 million
in stock-based compensation expense, driven primarily by an increase in headcount in our customer support and cloud operations organizations.
The remainder of the increase was primarily attributable to increased expenses of $2.0 million in facility and IT services.
Gross margin remained flat at 78% for fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023.
Operating Expenses
Sales and Marketing Expenses
Sales and marketing expenses increased by $146.4 million, or 15%, for fiscal 2024, compared to fiscal 2023. The change was driven primarily by an increase of $98.3 million in employee-related expenses, inclusive of an increase of $31.1 million in sales commissions expense and an increase of $3.5 million in stock-based compensation expense. The increase in stock-based compensation expense was driven primarily by an increase in headcount, offset by a reversal in February 2024 of $11.7 million of stock-based compensation expense associated with the cancellation of unvested equity awards resulting from the departure of our Chief Operating Officer, who led sales activities. The remainder of the increase was primarily attributable to increased expenses of $30.2 million in marketing and advertising expenses, $16.4 million in travel expenses, $6.1 million in facility-related expenses and $3.0 million in professional services.
73
Table of Contents
Research and Development Expenses
Research and development expenses increased by $150.1 million, or 43%, for fiscal 2024, compared to fiscal 2023, as we continued to develop and enhance the functionality of our cloud platform and integrate technologies acquired through our business combinations. The change was driven primarily by an increase of $145.9 million in employee-related expenses, inclusive of an increase of $62.6 million in stock-based compensation expense, primarily due to an increase in headcount. The increase in stock-based compensation expense for fiscal 2024 was partially driven by a reversal of $9.9 million of stock-based compensation expense recognized in fiscal 2023, which reduced the stock-based compensation expense in that period. The reversal of stock-based compensation expense resulted from the cancellation of unvested equity awards in connection with the departure of our President, who led research and development activities, in October 2022. The remainder of the increase was primarily attributable to increased expenses of $22.5 million in facility, cloud hosting, software and equipment-related expenses to support our growth. The net increase was offset by higher capitalized internal-use software development costs of $19.1 million to support the enhancement and growth of our cloud platform.
General and Administrative Expenses
General and administrative expenses increased by $34.5 million, or 19%, for fiscal 2024, compared to fiscal 2023.
Th
e change was driven primarily by an increase
of
$21.7 million
in
employee-related expenses, inclusive of an
increase
of
$6.2 million
in stock-based co
mpensation expense, primarily due to an increase in headcount. The remainder of the increase is primarily due to an increase of $4.1 million in facility-related expense
s
and an increase in miscellaneous expenses to support the growth of our business.
Restructuring and Other Charges
Restructuring and other charges for the year ended July 31, 2023 are associated with a restructuring plan announced in March 2023, under which we incurred $7.6 million of restructuring charges, consisting of $6.6 million of employee severance and benefit charges, and $1.0 million of stock-based compensation expense related to modified equity incentive awards.
T
he restructuring plan was completed during the fiscal quarter ended October 31, 2023.
74
Table of Contents
Interest Income
Interest income increased by $48.7 million for fiscal 2024, compared to fiscal 2023.
The change was driven primarily by higher interest rates and our increased balance of cash equivalents and short-term investments.
Interest Expense
Interest expense increased by
$6.6 million for fiscal 2024, compared to fiscal 2023.
The change was driven primarily by fair value hedge adjustments related to our Notes.
Other Expense, Net
Other expense, net increased by $1.9 million for fiscal 2024, compared to fiscal 2023. The change was driven primarily by fluctuations in foreign currency transactions gains and losses.
Provision for Income Taxes
O
ur provision for income taxes increased by $8.7 million, or 44%, for fiscal 2024, compared to fiscal 2023. The change was primarily driven by the increase in our pre-tax income in both foreign and U.S. jurisdictions in which we conduct business, offset by the reduction of the valuation allowance due to the establishment of deferred tax liabilities from the business acquisition. For further information, refer to Note 15, Income Taxes, of the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on form 10-K. Our effective tax rate of (97.4)% and (10.9)% in fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023, respectively, differs from the applicable U.S. statutory federal income tax rate due to our valuation allowance against our U.S. federal, state, and U.K. deferred tax assets as well as our foreign income being taxed at different rates than the U.S. statutory rate.
75
Table of Contents
Comparison of Fiscal 2023 and Fiscal 2022
For a discussion of our results of operations for the year ended July 31, 2023 as compared to the year ended July 31, 2022, refer to Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on September 14, 2023.
76
Table of Contents
Liquidity and Capital Resources
As of July 31, 2024, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaling $2,409.7 million, which were held for working capital and general corporate purposes. Our cash equivalents and investments consist of highly liquid investments in money market funds, U.S. treasury securities, U.S. government agency securities, certificates of deposit and corporate debt securities.
In June 2020, we completed the private offering of the Notes with an aggregate principal amount of $1,150.0 million. The total net proceeds from the offering, after deducting initial purchase discount and issuance costs, was $1,130.5 million. In connection with the Notes, we entered into the Capped Call transactions which are expected to reduce the potential dilution of our common stock upon any conversion of the Notes and/or offset any cash payments we could be required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted Notes. We used an aggregate amount of $145.2 million of the net proceeds of the Notes to purchase the Capped Calls.
We have generated significant losses from operations, as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $1,148.1 million as of July 31, 2024. We expect to continue to incur operating losses and have in the past and may in the future generate negative cash flows due to expected investments to grow our business, including potential business acquisitions and other strategic transactions.
We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to fund our working capital, capital expenditure, and convertible senior notes repayment requirements for at least the next 12 months from the issuance of our financial statements. Our foreseeable cash needs, in addition to our recurring operating costs, include our expected capital expenditures to support expansion of our infrastructure and workforce, lease obligations, purchase commitments, potential business acquisitions, convertible senior notes repayment requirements and other strategic transactions. Our assessment of the period of time through which our financial resources will be adequate to support our operations is a forward-looking statement and involves risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could vary as a result of, and our future capital requirements, both near-term and long-term, will depend on, many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to support our research and development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing and international operating activities, the timing of new introductions of solutions or features, and the continuing market acceptance of our services, the impact of macroeconomic conditions, such as high inflation and recessionary environments, and the impact of global crises to our and our customers', vendors' and partners' businesses. We have and may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies, including intellectual property rights. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could use our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect. Additionally, some of the factors that may influence our operations are not within our control, such as general economic conditions, geopolitical developments and the impact of global crises. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, or if we cannot expand our operations or otherwise capitalize on our business opportunities because we lack sufficient capital, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected.
We typically invoice our customers annually in advance, and to a lesser extent quarterly in advance, monthly in advance or multi-year in advance. Therefore, a substantial source of our cash is from such prepayments, which are included on our consolidated balance sheets as a contract liability. Deferred revenue consists of the unearned portion of billed fees for our subscriptions, which is subsequently recognized as revenue in accordance with our revenue recognition policy. As of July 31, 2024, we had deferred revenue of $1,895.0 million, of which $1,643.9 million was recorded as a current liability and is expected to be recorded as revenue in the next 12 months, provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Subscriptions that are invoiced annually in advance or multi-year in advance contribute significantly to our short-term and long-term deferred revenue in comparison to our invoices issued quarterly in advance or monthly in advance. Accordingly, we cannot predict the mix of invoicing schedules in any given period.
77
Table of Contents
As of July 31, 2024, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes.
The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented:
Operating Activities
Net cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2024 was $779.8 million, which resulted from a net loss of $57.7 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $771.5 million and net cash inflows of $66.1 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $527.7 million for stock-based compensation expense, $130.1 million for amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs, $66.3 million for depreciation and amortization expense, $49.4 million for non-cash operating lease costs, $14.6 million for amortization expense of acquired intangible assets and $3.9 million for amortization of debt discount and issuance costs, partially offset by amortization (accretion) of investments purchased at a premium (discount) of $19.1 million and $5.6 million for deferred income taxes.
Net cash inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities were primarily the result of an increase of $450.3 million in deferred revenue from advance invoicing in accordance with our subscription contracts, an increase of $43.6 million in accrued expenses, other current and noncurrent liabilities, an increase of $10.5 million in accrued compensation and an increase of $4.2 million in accounts payable. Net cash inflows were partially offset by cash outflows resulting from an increase of $200.3 million in deferred contract acquisition costs, as our sales commission payments increased due to the addition of new customers and expansion of our existing customer subscriptions, an increase of $153.0 million in accounts receivable primarily due to timing of billings and collections, a decrease of $49.2 million in operating lease liabilities primarily due to lease payments and an increase of $40.0 million in prepaid expenses, other current and noncurrent assets.
Net cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2023 was $462.3 million, which resulted from a net loss of $202.3 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $636.1 million and net cash inflows of $28.6 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $444.8 million for stock-based compensation expense, $98.7 million for amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs, $55.8 million for depreciation and amortization expense, $32.2 million for non-cash operating lease costs, $11.1 million for amortization expense of acquired intangible assets and $3.9 million for amortization of debt discount and issuance costs, partially offset by amortization (accretion) of investments purchased at a premium (discount) of $6.6 million and $3.3 million for net unrealized gains on hedging transactions.
Net cash inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities were primarily the result of an increase of $418.6 million in deferred revenue from advance invoicing in accordance with our subscription contracts, an increase of $26.8 million in accrued expenses, other current and noncurrent liabilities and an increase of $24.5 million in accrued compensation. Net cash inflows were partially offset by cash outflows resulting from an increase of $183.9 million in accounts receivable primarily due to timing of billings and collections, an increase of $177.0 million in deferred contract acquisition costs, as our sales commission payments increased due to the addition of new customers and expansion of our existing customer subscriptions, an increase of $39.9 million in prepaid expenses, other current and noncurrent assets, a
78
Table of Contents
decrease of $32.2 million in operating lease liabilities primarily due to lease payments and a decrease of $8.4 million in accounts payable.
Net cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2022 was $321.9 million, which resulted from a net loss of $390.3 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $614.7 million and net cash inflows of $97.5 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $409.6 million for stock-based compensation expense, $68.5 million for amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs, $55.1 million for amortization of debt discount and issuance costs, $40.5 million for depreciation and amortization expense, $25.6 million for non-cash operating lease costs, $9.0 million for amortization expense of acquired intangible assets and $6.6 million for amortization of investment premiums, net of accretion of purchase discounts.
Net cash inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities were primarily the result of an increase of $391.2 million in deferred revenue from advance invoicing in accordance with our subscription contracts, an increase of $18.3 million in accrued compensation, an increase of $14.4 million in accounts payable and an increase of $13.4 million in accrued expenses, other current and noncurrent liabilities. Net cash inflows were partially offset by cash outflows resulting from an increase of $158.5 million in deferred contract acquisition costs, as our sales commission payments increased due to the addition of new customers and expansion of our existing customer subscriptions, an increase of $143.3 million in accounts receivable primarily due to timing of billings and collections, a decrease of $27.7 million in operating lease liabilities primarily due to lease payments and an increase of $10.3 million in prepaid expenses, other current and noncurrent assets.
Investing Activities
Net cash used in investing activities during fiscal 2024 of $683.2 million was primarily attributable to the purchases of short-term investments of $1,291.0 million, $374.7 million, net of cash acquired for business acquisitions, capital expenditures of $194.9 million to support the growth and expansion of our cloud platform, and $2.0 million for purchases of strategic investments. These activities were partially offset by proceeds from the maturities and sales of short-term investments of $1,179.4 million.
Net cash used in investing activities during fiscal 2023 of $259.3 million was primarily attributable to the purchases of short-term investments of $1,064.1 million, capital expenditures of $128.7 million to support the growth and expansion of our cloud platform, $15.6 million, net of cash acquired for business acquisitions, and $3.2 million for purchases of strategic investments. These activities were partially offset by proceeds from the maturities and sales of short-term investments of $952.4 million.
Net cash provided by investing activities during fiscal 2022 of $374.1 million was primarily attributable to the proceeds from the maturities of short-term investments of $1,334.9 million These activities were partially offset by purchases of short-term investments of $844.9 million, capital expenditures of $90.6 million to support the growth and expansion of our cloud platform and $25.3 million, net of cash acquired for business acquisitions.
Financing Activities
Net cash provided by financing activities of $64.2 million during fiscal 2024 was primarily attributable to $52.0 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock under the ESPP and $12.2 million in proceeds from the exercise of stock options.
Net cash provided by financing activities of $46.0 million during fiscal 2023 was primarily attributable to $42.3 million in proceeds from issuance of common stock under the ESPP and $3.9 million in proceeds from the exercise of stock options.
Net cash provided by financing activities of $41.3 million during fiscal 2022 was primarily attributable to $34.6 million in proceeds from issuance of common stock under the ESPP and $6.9 million in proceeds from the exercise of stock options.
79
Contractual Obligations and Commitments
Our principal commitments consist of obligations under our convertible senior notes, real estate arrangements, co-location and bandwidth arrangements and non-cancelable purchase obligations. For additional information, refer to Note 10, Convertible Senior Notes, Note 11, Operating Leases and Note 12, Commitments and Contingencies, of the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, as well as related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. We refer to accounting estimates of this type as critical accounting policies and estimates, which we discuss below.
We have identified certain accounting policies that are significant to the preparation of our financial statements. These accounting policies are important for an understanding of our financial condition and results of operations. Critical accounting policies are those that are most important to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and require management’s subjective or complex judgment, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. While our significant accounting policies are more fully described in the notes to the consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we believe the following accounting policies have the most significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.
Revenue Recognition
In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, Topic 606, Revenue From Contracts With Customers, or ASC 606, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised services. The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration that we expect to be entitled to receive in exchange for these services. To achieve the core principle of this standard, we apply the following five steps:
1) Identify the contract with a customer
We consider the terms and conditions of the contracts and our customary business practices in identifying our contracts under ASC 606. We determine we have a contract with a customer when the contract is approved, we can identify each party’s rights regarding the services to be transferred, we can identify the payment terms for the services, we have determined the customer to have the ability and intent to pay, and the contract has commercial substance. We apply judgment in determining the customer’s ability and intent to pay, which is based on a variety of factors, including the customer’s historical payment experience or, in the case of a new customer, credit and financial information pertaining to the customer.
2) Identify the performance obligations in the contract
Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified based on the services that will be transferred to the customer that are both capable of being distinct, whereby the customer can benefit from the service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available from third parties or from us, and are distinct in the context of the contract, whereby the transfer of the services is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract. Our performance obligations consist of (i) our subscription and support services and (ii) professional and other services.
80
Table of Contents
3) Determine the transaction price
The transaction price is determined based on the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for transferring services to the customer. Variable consideration is included in the transaction price if, in our judgment, it is probable that a significant future reversal of cumulative revenue under the contract will not occur. None of our contracts contain a significant financing component.
4) Allocate the transaction price to performance obligations in the contract
If the contract contains a single performance obligation, the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation. Contracts that contain multiple performance obligations require an allocation of the transaction price to each performance obligation based on a relative standalone selling price, or SSP.
5) Recognize revenue when or as we satisfy a performance obligation
Revenue is recognized at the time the related performance obligation is satisfied by transferring the promised service to a customer. Revenue is recognized when control of the services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration that we expect to receive in exchange for those services. We generate all our revenue from contracts with customers and apply judgment in identifying and evaluating any terms and conditions in contracts which may impact revenue recognition.
Subscription and Support Revenue
We generate revenue primarily from sales of subscriptions to access our cloud platform, together with related support services to our customers. Arrangements with customers do not provide the customer with the right to take possession of our software operating our cloud platform at any time. Instead, customers are granted continuous access to our cloud platform over the contractual period. A time-elapsed output method is used to measure progress because we transfer control evenly over the contractual period. Accordingly, the fixed consideration related to subscription and support revenue is generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract term beginning on the date that our service is made available to the customer.
The typical subscription and support term is one to three years. Most of our contracts are non-cancelable over the contractual term. Customers typically have the right to terminate their contracts for cause if we fail to perform in accordance with the contractual terms. Some of our customers have the option to purchase additional subscription and support services at a stated price. These options generally do not provide a material right as they are priced at our SSP.
Professional and Other Services Revenue
Professional and other services revenue consists of fees associated with providing deployment advisory services that educate and assist our customers on the best use of our solutions, as well as advise customers on best practices as they deploy our solution. These services are distinct from subscription and support services. Professional services do not result in significant customization of the subscription service. Revenue from professional services provided on a time and materials basis is recognized as the services are performed. Total professional and other services revenue has historically been insignificant.
Contracts with Multiple Performance Obligations
Most of our contracts with customers contain multiple promised services consisting of (i) our subscription and support services and (ii) professional and other services that are distinct and accounted for separately. The transaction price is allocated to the separate performance obligations on a relative SSP basis. We determine SSP based on our overall pricing objectives, taking into consideration the type of subscription and support services and professional and other services, the geographical region of the customer and the number of users.
81
Table of Contents
Variable Consideration
Revenue from sales is recorded at the net sales price, which is the transaction price, and includes estimates of variable consideration. The amount of variable consideration that is included in the transaction price is constrained, and is included in the net sales price only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of the cumulative revenue will not occur when the uncertainty is resolved.
If our services do not meet certain service level commitments, our customers are entitled to receive service credits, and in certain cases, refunds, each representing a form of variable consideration. We have not historically experienced any significant incidents affecting the defined levels of reliability and performance as required by our subscription contracts. Accordingly, any estimated refunds related to these agreements in the consolidated financial statements were not material during the periods presented.
We provide rebates and other credits within our contracts with certain customers which are estimated based on the most likely amounts expected to be earned or claimed on the related sales transaction. Overall, the transaction price is reduced to reflect our estimate of the amount of consideration to which we are entitled based on the terms of the contract. Estimated rebates and other credits were not material during the periods presented.
Contract Balances
Contract liabilities consist of deferred revenue and include payments received in advance of performance under the contract. Such amounts are recognized as revenue over the contractual period.
We receive payments from customers based upon contractual billing schedules; accounts receivable are recorded when the right to consideration becomes unconditional. Payment terms on invoiced amounts are typically 30 days. Contract assets include amounts related to our contractual right to consideration for both completed and partially completed performance obligations that may not have been invoiced and such amounts have been insignificant to date.
Costs to Obtain and Fulfill a Contract
We capitalize sales commissions and associated payroll taxes paid to sales personnel that are incremental to the acquisition of channel partner and direct customer contracts. These costs are recorded as deferred contract acquisition costs on the consolidated balance sheets. We determine whether costs should be deferred based on our sales compensation plans, if the commissions are in fact incremental and would not have occurred absent the customer contract.
Sales commissions for renewal of a contract are not considered commensurate with the commissions paid for the acquisition of the initial contract given the substantive difference in commission rates in proportion to their respective contract values. Commissions paid upon the initial acquisition of a contract are amortized over an estimated period of benefit of five years while commissions paid for renewal contracts are amortized over the contractual term of the renewals. Amortization is recognized on a straight-line basis commensurate with the pattern of revenue recognition. We determine the period of benefit for commissions paid for the acquisition of the initial contract by taking into consideration the expected subscription term and expected renewals of our customer contracts, the duration of our relationships with customers, customer retention data, our technology development life cycle and other factors. Management exercises judgment to determine the period of benefit to amortize contract acquisition costs by considering factors such as expected renewals of customer contracts, duration of customer relationships and our technology development life cycle. Although we believe that the historical assumptions and estimates we have made are reasonable and appropriate, different assumptions and estimates could materially impact our reported financial results. Amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs is included in sales and marketing expense in the consolidated statements of operations. We periodically review these deferred costs to determine whether events or changes in circumstances have occurred that could impact the period of benefit of these deferred contract acquisition costs.
82
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
Refer to Note 1, Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements.
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
We have operations in the United States and internationally, and we are exposed to market risk in the ordinary course of our business.
Interest Rate Risk
As of July 31, 2024, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaling $2,409.7 million, which were held for working capital purposes. Our cash equivalents and investments consist of highly liquid investments in money market funds, U.S. treasury securities, U.S. government agency securities, certificates of deposit and corporate debt securities. The primary objectives of our investment activities are the preservation of capital, the fulfillment of liquidity needs and the fiduciary control of cash and investments. We do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes. The carrying amount of our cash equivalents reasonably approximates fair value, due to the short maturities of these instruments. Our investments are exposed to market risk due to a fluctuation in interest rates, which may affect our interest income and the fair market value of our investments. As of July 31, 2024, the effect of a hypothetical 100 basis point change in interest rates would have changed the fair value of our investments in available-for-sale securities by $10.0 million. Fluctuations in the fair value of our investments in available-for-sale securities caused by a change in interest rates (gains or losses on the carrying amount) are recorded in other comprehensive income (loss), and are realized only if we sell the underlying securities prior to maturity.
We also use interest rate swaps to economically convert certain of our fixed interest rate Notes to floating interest rates, in order to match the floating rate nature of a portion of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments. These interest rate swaps are designated as fair value hedges, and changes in fair value of the interest rate swaps offset the changes in fair market value of the Notes due to benchmark interest rate movements. Gains or losses related to our fair value hedges are included within interest expense in the consolidated statement of operations in the period of change together with the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item attributed to risk being hedged.
Convertible Senior Notes
In June 2020, we issued our Notes with an aggregate principal amount of $1,150.0 million. In connection with the issuance of the Notes, we entered into privately negotiated capped call transactions with certain counterparties (the "Capped Calls"). The Capped Calls are expected generally to offset the potential dilution to our common stock as a result of any conversion of the Notes.
The Notes have a fixed annual interest rate of 0.125%, accordingly, we do not have economic interest rate exposure on the Notes. However, the fair value of the Notes is exposed to interest rate risk. Generally, the fair value of the Notes will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. Through July 31, 2022, we carried the Notes at face value less unamortized debt discount and debt issuance costs on our consolidated balance sheet. Effective August 1, 2022, upon adoption of ASU 2020-06, we carry the Notes at face value less debt issuance costs on our consolidated balance sheet. For further information refer to Note 1, Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We present the fair value for required disclosure purposes only. In addition, the fair value of the Notes also fluctuates when the market price of our common stock fluctuates. The fair value was determined based on the quoted bid price of the Notes in an over-the-counter market on the last trading
83
Table of Contents
day of the reporting period. For further information refer to Note 10, Convertible Senior Notes, to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Foreign Currency Risk
The vast majority of our sales contracts are denominated in U.S. dollars, with a small number of contracts denominated in foreign currencies. A portion of our operating expenses are incurred outside the United States, denominated in foreign currencies and subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the British Pound, Indian Rupee, Euro, Japanese Yen, Canadian Dollar and Australian Dollar. Additionally, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may cause us to recognize transaction gains and losses in our consolidated statements of operations. The effect of a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates applicable to our business would not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements for all periods presented.
We have a foreign currency risk management program, and we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge a portion of our forecasted foreign currency-denominated expenses. These foreign currency derivative contracts have a maturity up to 24 months or less and are designated as cash flow hedges to protect our earnings subjected to foreign currency risk. We also use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate variability in gains and losses generated from the remeasurement of certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.
84
Table of Contents
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
Index to Consolidated Financial Statements
85
Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Zscaler, Inc.
Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Zscaler, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") as of July 31, 2024 and 2023, and the related consolidated statements of operations, of comprehensive loss, of stockholders' equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended July 31, 2024, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the "consolidated financial statements"). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of July 31, 2024, based on criteria established in
Internal Control - Integrated Framework
(2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of July 31, 2024 and 2023, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended July 31, 2024 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of July 31, 2024, based on criteria established in
Internal Control - Integrated Framework
(2013) issued by the COSO.
Change in Accounting Principle
As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts for convertible senior notes as of August 1, 2022.
Basis for Opinions
The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express opinions on the Company’s consolidated financial statements and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
86
Table of Contents
As described in Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, management has excluded Airgap Networks Inc. and Avalor Technologies Ltd. from its assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of July 31, 2024, because they were acquired by the Company in purchase business combinations during 2024. We have also excluded Airgap Networks Inc. and Avalor Technologies Ltd. from our audit of internal control over financial reporting. Airgap Networks Inc. and Avalor Technologies Ltd. are wholly-owned subsidiaries whose total assets and total revenues excluded from management’s assessment and our audit of internal control over financial reporting collectively represent approximately 0.4% and 0.1%, respectively, of the related consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the year ended July 31, 2024.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the consolidated financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (i) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (ii) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.
Revenue Recognition – Subscription and Support Revenue
As described in Notes 1 and 2 to the consolidated financial statements, revenue is recognized when control of the services is transferred to the customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration that the Company expects to receive in exchange for those services. The Company generates all revenue from contracts with customers and management applies judgment in identifying and evaluating any terms and conditions in contracts which may impact revenue recognition. For the year ended July 31, 2024, the Company’s revenue was $2,168 million of which approximately 97% relates to subscription and support revenue.
The principal consideration for our determination that performing procedures relating to revenue recognition for subscription and support revenue is a critical audit matter is a high degree of auditor effort in performing procedures related to the Company’s revenue recognition.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our overall opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls relating to
87
Table of Contents
the revenue recognition process for subscription and support revenue. These procedures also included, among others (i) testing revenue recognized for a sample of subscription and support revenue transactions by obtaining and inspecting source documents, such as sales quotes, purchase orders, sales orders, invoices, and payment receipts and (ii) confirming a sample of outstanding customer invoice balances as of July 31, 2024 and, for confirmations not returned, obtaining and inspecting source documents, such as sales quotes, purchase orders, sales orders, invoices, and subsequent payment receipts.
88
Table of Contents
ZSCALER, INC.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands, except per share amounts)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
89
Table of Contents
ZSCALER, INC.
Consolidated Statements of Operations
(in thousands, except per share amounts)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
90
Table of Contents
ZSCALER, INC.
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss
(in thousands)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
91
Table of Contents
ZSCALER, INC.
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity
(in thousands)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
92
Table of Contents
ZSCALER, INC.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(in thousands)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
ZSCALER, INC.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (continued)
(in thousands)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
93
ZSCALER, INC.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 1.
Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Description of the Business
Zscaler, Inc. ("Zscaler," the "Company," "we," "us," or "our") is a cloud security company that developed a platform incorporating core security functionalities needed to enable fast and secure access to cloud resources based on identity, context and organization’s policies. Our solution is a purpose-built, multi-tenant, distributed cloud platform that incorporates the security functionality needed to enable users, applications, and devices to safely and efficiently utilize authorized applications and services based on an organization’s business policies. We deliver our solutions using a software-as-a-service ("SaaS") business model and sell subscriptions to customers to access our cloud platform, together with related support services. We were incorporated in Delaware in September 2007 and conduct business worldwide, with presence in North America, Europe and Asia. Our headquarters are in San Jose, California.
Fiscal Year
Our fiscal year ends on July 31. References to fiscal 2024, for example, refer to our fiscal year ending July 31, 2024.
Principles of Consolidation
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries and have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP"). All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with
U.S.
GAAP requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the amounts reported and disclosed in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Such estimates include, but are not limited to, the determination of revenue recognition, deferred revenue, deferred contract acquisition costs, capitalized internal-use software, valuation of acquired intangible assets, period of benefit generated from our deferred contract acquisition costs, allowance for doubtful accounts, valuation of common stock options and stock-based awards, useful lives of property and equipment, useful lives of acquired intangible assets, recoverability of goodwill, valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, loss contingencies related to litigation, fair value of convertible senior notes and the discount rate used for operating leases. Management determines these estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable. Actual results could differ significantly from these estimates, and such differences may be material to the consolidated financial statements.
Due to uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment, including the effects of inflation and geopolitical events, there is ongoing disruption in the global economy and financial markets. We are not aware of any specific event or circumstances that would require an update to our estimates, judgments or assumptions or a revision to the carrying value of our assets or liabilities as of the date of issuance of these consolidated financial statements. These estimates, judgments and assumptions may change in the future, as new events occur or additional information is obtained.
Foreign Currency
The functional currency of our foreign subsidiaries is the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, monetary assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries are re-measured into U.S. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the reporting date, non-monetary
94
T
a
ble of Contents
assets and liabilities are re-measured at historical rates, revenue and expenses are re-measured at average exchange rates in effect during each reporting period. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are recorded in other expense, net in the consolidated statements of operations. Foreign currency remeasurement gains and losses and foreign currency transaction gains and losses are not significant to the consolidated financial statements for all periods presented.
Concentration of Risks
We generate revenue primarily from sale of subscriptions to access our cloud platform, together with related support services. Our sales team, along with our channel partner network of global telecommunications service providers, system integrators and value-added resellers (collectively "channel partners"), sells our services worldwide to organizations of all sizes. Due to the nature of our services and the terms and conditions of our contracts with our channel partners, our business could be affected unfavorably if we are not able to continue our relationships with them.
Our financial instruments that are exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash, cash equivalents, derivative contracts, short-term investments and accounts receivable. Although we deposit our cash with multiple financial institutions, the deposits, at times, may exceed federally insured limits. Cash equivalents and short-term investments consist of highly liquid investments in money market funds, U.S. treasury, U.S. agency securities, certificates of deposit and corporate debt securities, which are invested through financial institutions.
We grant credit to our customers in the normal course of business. We monitor the financial condition of our customers to reduce credit risk. Refer to Note 2, Revenue Recognition, for information regarding customers with concentration of 10% or more of the total balance of accounts receivable, net.
Segment Information
We operate as
one
reportable and operating segment. Our chief operating decision maker is our chief executive officer, who reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of making operating decisions, assessing financial performance and allocating resources.
Revenue Recognition
In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 606, Revenue From Contracts With Customers ("ASC 606"), revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised services. The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration that we expect to be entitled to receive in exchange for these services. To achieve the core principle of this standard, we apply the following five steps:
1) Identify the contract with a customer
We consider the terms and conditions of the contracts and our customary business practices in identifying our contracts under ASC 606. We determine we have a contract with a customer when the contract is approved, we can identify each party’s rights regarding the services to be transferred, we can identify the payment terms for the services, we have determined the customer has the ability and intent to pay and the contract has commercial substance. We apply judgment in determining the customer’s ability and intent to pay, which is based on a variety of factors, including the customer’s historical payment experience or, in the case of a new customer, credit and financial information pertaining to the customer.
2) Identify the performance obligations in the contract
Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified based on the services that will be transferred to the customer that are both capable of being distinct, whereby the customer can benefit from the service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available from third parties or from us, and are distinct in the context of the
95
T
a
ble of Contents
contract, whereby the transfer of the services is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract. Our performance obligations consist of (i) our subscription and support services and (ii) professional and other services.
3) Determine the transaction price
The transaction price is determined based on the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for transferring services to the customer. Variable consideration is included in the transaction price if, in our judgment, it is probable that a significant future reversal of cumulative revenue under the contract will not occur. None of our contracts contain a significant financing component.
4) Allocate the transaction price to performance obligations in the contract
If the contract contains a single performance obligation, the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation. Contracts that contain multiple performance obligations require an allocation of the transaction price to each performance obligation based on a relative standalone selling price ("SSP").
5) Recognize revenue when or as we satisfy a performance obligation
Revenue is recognized at the time the related performance obligation is satisfied by transferring the promised service to a customer. Revenue is recognized when control of the services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration that we expect to receive in exchange for those services. We generate all our revenue from contracts with customers and apply judgment in identifying and evaluating any terms and conditions in contracts which may impact revenue recognition.
Subscription and Support Revenue
We generate revenue primarily from sales of subscriptions to access our cloud platform, together with related support services to our customers. Arrangements with customers do not provide the customer with the right to take possession of our software operating our cloud platform at any time. Instead, customers are granted continuous access to our cloud platform over the contractual period. A time-elapsed output method is used to measure progress because we transfer control evenly over the contractual period. Accordingly, the fixed consideration related to subscription and support revenue is generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract term beginning on the date that our service is made available to the customer.
The typical subscription and support term is
one
to
three years
. Most of our contracts are non-cancelable over the contractual term. Customers typically have the right to terminate their contracts for cause if we fail to perform in accordance with the contractual terms. Some of our customers have the option to purchase additional subscription and support services at a stated price. These options generally do not provide a material right as they are priced at our SSP.
Professional and Other Services Revenue
Professional and other services revenue consists of fees associated with providing deployment advisory services that educate and assist our customers on the best use of our solutions, as well as advise customers on best practices as they deploy our solution. These services are distinct from subscription and support services. Professional services do not result in significant customization of the subscription service. Revenue from professional services provided on a time and materials basis is recognized as the services are performed.
Total professional and other services revenue has historically not been material.
96
T
a
ble of Contents
Contracts with Multiple Performance Obligations
Most of our contracts with customers contain multiple promised services consisting of: (i) our subscription and support services and (ii) professional and other services that are distinct and accounted for separately. The transaction price is allocated to the separate performance obligations on a relative SSP basis. We determine SSP based on our overall pricing objectives, taking into consideration the type of subscription and support services and professional and other services, the geographical region of the customer and the number of users.
Variable Consideration
Revenue from sales is recorded at the net sales price, which is the transaction price, and includes estimates of variable consideration. The amount of variable consideration that is included in the transaction price is constrained and included in the net sales price only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of the cumulative revenue will not occur when the uncertainty is resolved.
If our services do not meet certain service level commitments, our customers are entitled to receive service credits, and in certain cases, refunds, each representing a form of variable consideration.
We have historically not experienced any significant incidents affecting the defined levels of reliability and performance as required by our subscription contracts. Accordingly, estimated refunds related to these agreements were not material to the periods presented.
We provide rebates and other credits within our contracts with certain customers, which are estimated based on the value expected to be earned or claimed on the related sales transaction. Overall, the transaction price is reduced to reflect our estimate of the amount of consideration to which we are entitled based on the terms of the contract. Estimated rebates and other credits were not material during the periods presented.
Accounts Receivable and Allowance
Accounts receivable are recorded at the invoiced amount and are non-interest bearing. Accounts receivable are stated at their net realizable value, net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. We have a well-established collections history from our customers. Credit is extended to customers based on an evaluation of their financial condition and other factors. In determining the necessary allowance for doubtful accounts, we estimate the lifetime expected credit losses against the existing accounts receivable balance. Our estimate is based on certain factors including historical loss rates, current economic conditions, reasonable and supportable forecasts and customer-specific circumstances. The allowance for doubtful accounts has historically not been material. There were no material write-offs recognized in the periods presented. Accordingly, the movements in the allowance for doubtful accounts were not material for any of the periods presented. We do not have any off-balance-sheet credit exposure related to our customers.
Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments
We classify all highly liquid investments purchased with an original maturity of 90 days or less from the date of purchase as cash equivalents and all highly liquid investments with original maturities beyond 90 days at the time of purchase as short-term investments. Our cash equivalents and short-term investments consist of highly liquid investments in money market funds, U.S. treasury securities, U.S. government agency securities, certificates of deposit and corporate debt securities.
We classify our investments as available-for-sale investments and present them within current assets since these investments represent funds available for current operations and we have the ability and intent, if necessary, to liquidate any of these investments in order to meet our liquidity needs or to grow our business, including for potential business acquisitions or other strategic transactions. Our investments are carried at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses unrelated to credit loss factors reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ("AOCI").
97
T
a
ble of Contents
Our investments are reviewed periodically when there is a decline in a security’s fair value below the amortized cost basis. We consider our intent to sell and whether it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the securities before the recovery of its cost basis. If either of these criteria are triggered, the amortized cost basis of the debt security is written down to fair value through other expense, net. If neither criteria is met, we evaluate whether the decline in fair value below the amortized cost basis is related to credit-related factors or other factors such as interest rate fluctuations. The factors considered in this analysis include the extent the fair value is less than the amortized cost basis, whether there were changes to the rating of the security by a ratings agency, whether the issuer has failed to make scheduled interest payments and other adverse conditions as applicable. Credit-related impairment losses, limited by the amount that the fair value is less than the amortized cost basis, are recorded through an allowance for credit losses in other expense, net. For purposes of identifying and measuring credit-related impairments, our policy is to exclude the applicable accrued interest from both the fair value and amortized cost basis of the related debt security. Accrued interest receivable, net of the allowance for credit losses, if any, is recorded to prepaid expenses and other current assets. There were
no
credit-related impairments recognized on our investments during the periods presented.
Interest income, amortization (accretion) of investments purchased at a premium (discount) and realized gains and losses are included in interest income in the consolidated statements of operations. We use the specific identification method to determine the cost in calculating realized gains and losses upon the sale of these investments.
Strategic Investments
Our strategic investments consist of non-marketable equity investments of privately held companies. Investments in non-marketable equity investments of privately held companies without readily determinable fair values are measured using the measurement alternative, as we have less than 20% ownership and do not have the ability to exercise significant influence over their operations. The carrying amount of non-marketable equity investments is adjusted based on observable price changes from orderly transactions for identical or similar investments of the same issuer and by impairments when events or circumstances indicate a decline in value has occurred. Non-marketable equity investments that have been remeasured during the period due to an observable event or impairment are classified within Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy because we estimate the value based on valuation methods which may include a combination of the observable transaction price at the transaction date and other unobservable inputs including volatility, rights, and obligations of the investments we hold. Our strategic investments are included within other noncurrent assets in the consolidated balance sheets and adjustments to their carrying amounts are recorded in other expense, net in the consolidated statements of operations. There were no material events or circumstances impacting the carrying amount of our strategic investments during the periods presented.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Our financial instruments consist of cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued liabilities, derivative instruments and
convertible senior notes. Cash e
quivalents and short-term investments are recorded at fair value. Accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities are stated at their carrying value, which approximates fair value due to the short-time to the expected receipt or payment date. Assets recorded at fair value on a recurring basis in the consolidated balance sheets, consisting of cash equivalents and short-term investments, are categorized in accordance with the fair value hierarchy based upon the level of judgment associated with the inputs used to measure their fair values.
We carry the convertible senior notes at face value less debt issuance costs and hedge accounting fair value adjustments on our consolidated balance sheet. The fair value of the convertible senior notes is presented at each reporting period for disclosure purposes only.
Property and Equipment
Property and equipment, net are stated at historical cost net of accumulated depreciation. Property and equipment, excluding leasehold improvements, are depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the
98
T
a
ble of Contents
respective assets, generally ranging from
three
to
five years
. Leasehold improvements are amortized using the straight-line method over the shorter of the estimated useful lives of the respective assets or the lease term. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred and significant improvements and betterments that substantially enhance the life of an asset are capitalized.
In August 2023, we completed an assessment of the useful lives of our servers and networking equipment, which resulted in an extension of their useful lives from
four
to
five years
. This change in accounting estimate was effective beginning fiscal 2024. Based on the carrying amount of these assets as of July 31, 2023, this change decreased depreciation expense by $
13.4
million for fiscal 2024.
Capitalized Internal-Use Software
We capitalize certain costs incurred during the application development stage in connection with software development for our cloud security platform. Costs related to preliminary project activities and post-implementation activities are expensed as incurred. Capitalized costs are recorded as part of property and equipment in the consolidated balance sheets. Maintenance and training costs are expensed as incurred. Capitalized internal-use software is amortized on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, which is generally
three
to
five years
, and is recorded as cost of revenue in the consolidated statements of operations.
Capitalization of development costs, inclusive of stock-based compensation, of software for internal-use in fiscal 2024, fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022 was $
76.9
million, $
48.6
million and $
32.7
million, respectively. Amortization expense of capitalized software for internal-use in fiscal 2024, fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022 was $
36.3
million, $
24.2
million and $
13.0
million, respectively.
Business Combinations
We account for our business combinations using the acquisition method of accounting, which requires, among other things, allocation of the fair value of purchase consideration to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their estimated fair values on the acquisition date. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. When determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, we make estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates.
During the measurement period, not to exceed one year from the date of acquisition, we may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with a corresponding offset to goodwill if new information is obtained related to facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date. After the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments are reflected in the consolidated statements of operations. Acquisition costs, such as legal and consulting fees, are expensed as incurred.
Goodwill and Other Long-Lived Assets, including Acquired Intangible Assets
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of purchase consideration in a business combination over the fair value of net tangible and intangible assets acquired. Goodwill amounts are not amortized, but rather tested for impairment at least annually or more often if circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. There was
no
impairment of goodwill during any of the periods presented.
Acquired intangible assets consist of identifiable intangible assets, including developed technology and customer relationships, resulting from business combinations. Acquired finite-lived intangible assets are initially recorded at fair value and are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Amortization expense of developed technology and customer relationships is recorded primarily within cost of revenues and sales and marketing expenses, respectively, in the consolidated statements of operations.
99
T
a
ble of Contents
Long-lived assets, such as property and equipment and acquired intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. We measure the recoverability of these assets by comparing the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows that these assets are expected to generate. If the total of the future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying amount of an asset, we record an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value.
There were
no
asset impairments for all periods presented.
Restructuring and Other Charges
Restructuring and other charges occur when we commit to a restructuring plan, the restructuring plan identifies all significant actions, the period of time to complete the restructuring plan indicates that significant changes to the restructuring plan are not likely and employees who are impacted have been notified of the pending involuntary termination. A restructuring plan generally includes significant actions involving employee-related severance charges, employee-related benefits, stock-based compensation expense related to the modification of equity incentive awards and other charges associated with the restructuring (the "restructuring charges"). Restructuring charges are accrued in the period in which it is probable that the employees are entitled to the restructuring benefits and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. Restructuring charges are recorded within restructuring and other charges in the consolidated statement of operations. The restructuring liability accrued but not paid at the end of the reporting period is included within accrued compensation in the consolidated balance sheets.
Derivative Instruments
We enter into foreign currency forward contracts, a portion of which we designate as cash flow hedges, in order to manage the volatility of cash flows that relate to our cost of revenues and operating expenses denominated in foreign currencies.
We also use interest rate swaps to economically convert a certain tranche of our fixed interest rate convertible senior notes to floating interest rates,
in order to match the floating rate nature of a portion of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments. These interest rate swaps are designated as fair value hedges, and changes in fair value of the interest rate swaps offset the changes in fair market value of the convertible senior notes due to benchmark interest rate movements.
Gains or losses related to our fair value hedges are included within interest expense in the consolidated statement of operations in the period of change together with the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item attributed to the risk being hedged. We measure hedge effectiveness of the interest rate swaps using regression analysis at inception and periodically thereafter.
Gains or losses related to our cash flow hedges are recorded as a component of AOCI in the consolidated statements of stockholders' equity until the forecasted transaction occurs in earnings. When the forecasted transaction occurs, the related gains and losses are reclassified into earnings within the financial statement line item associated with the underlying hedged transaction. If the underlying hedged transaction does not occur, or it becomes probable that the hedged transaction will not occur, the cumulative unrealized gain or loss is reclassified immediately from AOCI into earnings within the financial statement line item associated with the underlying hedged transaction. We measure hedge effectiveness using regression analysis at hedge inception and periodically thereafter. We include time value in our effectiveness assessment.
We recognize changes in the fair value of non-designated derivative instruments within other expense, net in the consolidated statements of operations in the same period that the fair value measurement occurs.
All of our derivative instruments are measured at fair value. We have elected to present the derivative assets and derivative liabilities on a gross basis on the consolidated balance sheets. Derivative instruments are classified in the
100
T
a
ble of Contents
consolidated statements of cash flows as cash from operating activities, which reflect the classification of the underlying hedged transactions.
Operating Leases
We enter into operating lease arrangements for real estate assets related to office space and co-location assets related to space and racks at data center facilities. We determine if an arrangement contains a lease at its inception by assessing whether there is an identified asset and whether the arrangement conveys the right to control the use of the identified asset in exchange for consideration. Operating leases related balances are included in "operating lease right-of-use assets," "operating lease liabilities," and "operating lease liabilities, noncurrent" in the consolidated balance sheets. Right-of-use assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make payments arising from the lease. Operating lease right-of-use assets and lease liabilities are recognized at the lease commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. Lease payments consist of the fixed payments under the arrangement. The operating lease liabilities are adjusted for any unpaid lease incentives, such as tenant improvement allowances. Variable costs, such as maintenance and utilities based on actual usage, are not included in the measurement of right-to-use assets and lease liabilities but are expensed when the event determining the amount of variable consideration to be paid occurs. As the implicit rate of our leases is not determinable, we use an incremental borrowing rate ("IBR") based on the information available at the lease commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments. The lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
We generally use the base, non-cancelable lease term when recognizing the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities, unless it is reasonably certain that a renewal or termination option will be exercised. We account for lease components and non-lease components as a single lease component.
Leases with a term of twelve months or less are not recognized on the consolidated balance sheets.
Stock-Based Compensation
Compensation expense related to stock-based awards granted to employees and non-employees is calculated based on the fair value of stock-based awards on the date of grant. We recognize stock-based compensation expense in the consolidated statement of operations over an award’s requisite service period based on the award’s fair value.
Stock-based compensation for common stock options is measured based on the fair value of the awards granted, determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. Stock-based compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, generally
four years
.
Stock-based compensation for purchase rights granted under the employee stock purchase plan ("ESPP") is measured based on the fair value of the number of awards estimated at the beginning of the offering period, as determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. Stock-based compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the
two-year
offering period.
Stock-based compensation for restricted stock units ("RSUs") with only service conditions is measured based on the market closing price of our common stock on the grant date. Stock-based compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, generally
four years
.
Stock-based compensation for performance stock awards (“PSAs”), which have the same grant date and service inception date, and subject to both service and performance conditions, is measured based on the probable number of shares to be attained and the market closing price of our common stock at the grant date. The expense is recognized using the accelerated attribution method over the requisite service period. For PSAs where the service inception date of the awards precedes the grant date, stock-based compensation expense is recognized based on the number of PSAs for which it is probable that the performance condition will be met, using the accelerated attribution method and the market closing price of
101
T
a
ble of Contents
our common stock at each reporting date up to the grant date. The number of these PSAs for which it is probable that the performance condition will be met is determined using management’s best estimate at the end of each reporting period. At the completion of the performance period for these PSAs, any earned PSAs are granted upon approval of the compensation committee of our board of directors.
We account for forfeitures as they occur for all stock-based awards.
Convertible Senior Notes
We adopted Financial Accounting Standard Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standard Update ("ASU") No. 2020-06, Debt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and Hedging - Contracts in Entity’s Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40) ("ASU 2020-06") as of August 1, 2022, the beginning of fiscal 2023, using the modified retrospective method.
Prior to the adoption of ASU 2020-06, in accounting for the issuance of the convertible senior notes, the convertible senior notes were separated into liability and equity components. The carrying amounts of the liability component was calculated by measuring the fair value of similar liabilities that do not have associated convertible features. The carrying amount of the equity component representing the conversion option was determined by deducting the fair value of the liability component from the par value of the convertible senior notes as a whole. This difference represents the debt discount that was amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the convertible senior notes using the effective interest rate method. The equity component was recorded in additional paid-in capital and was not remeasured as long as it continued to meet the conditions for equity classification.
In accounting for the related debt issuance costs, we allocated the total amount incurred to the liability and equity components of the convertible senior notes based on their relative values. Issuance costs attributable to the liability component were being amortized to interest expense over the contractual term of the convertible senior notes. The issuance costs attributable to the equity component were netted against the equity component representing the conversion option in additional paid-in capital.
To the extent that we receive the convertible senior notes conversion requests prior to their maturity, a portion of the equity component is classified as temporary equity, which is measured as the difference between the principal and net carrying amount of the convertible senior notes requested for conversion. Upon settlement of the conversion requests, the difference between the fair value and the amortized book value of the liability component of the convertible senior notes requested for conversion is recorded as a gain or loss on early note conversion. The fair value of the convertible senior notes is measured based on a similar liability that does not have an associated convertible feature based on the remaining term of the convertible senior notes.
Upon adoption of
ASU 2020-06 and using the modified retrospective method, prior period amounts have not been adjusted. This standard resulted in our convertible senior notes being accounted for as a single unit of debt and we will no longer be required to record the conversion feature in equity. This further eliminated the need for amortization of the debt discount as interest expense and the portion of the issuance costs initially allocated to equity is now classified as debt and amortized as interest expense. As of August 1, 2022, the adoption of this new standard resulted in an increase of $
169.9
million to the carrying amount of the convertible senior notes, a decrease of $
273.7
million to additional paid-in capital and a cumulative-effect adjustment of $
103.8
million to accumulated deficit.
Prior to the adoption of this standard, we used the treasury stock method to calculate the potentially diluted effect of the convertible senior notes; however, upon adoption of this standard we are required to use the if-converted method. Accordingly, to account for the potentially diluted shares related to the convertible senior notes under a net income position, we are required to add back the related interest expense to the net income and include approximately
7.63
million shares related to the convertible senior notes. Since we have reported net losses for all periods presented, the convertible senior
102
T
a
ble of Contents
notes were determined to be anti-dilutive and therefore had no impact to the diluted net loss per share for all periods presented.
Research and Development
Our research and development expenses support our efforts to add new products, new features to our existing offerings and to ensure the reliability, availability and scalability of our solutions. Our cloud platform is software-driven, and our research and development teams employ software engineers in the design and the related development, testing, certification and support of our solutions. Accordingly, the majority of our research and development expenses result from employee-related costs, including salaries, bonuses, benefits, stock-based compensation and costs associated with technology tools used by our engineers.
Advertising Expenses
Advertising expenses are charged to sales and marketing expenses in the consolidated statements of operations as incurred.
We recognized advertising expense of $
25.0
million, $
24.0
million and $
22.1
million in fiscal 2024, fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022, respectively.
Warranties and Indemnification
Our cloud platform is generally warranted to be free of defects under normal use and to perform substantially in accordance with the subscription agreement. Additionally, our contracts generally include provisions for indemnifying customers and channel partners against liabilities if our services infringe or misappropriate a third party’s intellectual property rights. Costs and liabilities incurred as a result of warranties and indemnification obligations were not material during the periods presented.
Legal Contingencies
We may be subject to legal proceedings and litigation arising from time to time. We record a liability when we believe that it is both probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. We periodically evaluate developments in our legal matters that could affect the amount of liability that we accrue, if any, and adjust, as appropriate. Until the final resolution of any such matter for which we may be required to record a liability, there may be a loss exposure in excess of the liability recorded and such amount could be significant. We expense legal fees as incurred.
I
ncome Taxes
We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method. Deferred income taxes are recognized by applying the enacted statutory tax rates applicable to future years to differences between the carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in the period that includes the enactment date. The measurement of deferred tax assets is reduced, if necessary, by a valuation allowance to amounts that are more likely than not to be realized.
We recognize tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only if we believe that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement.
103
T
a
ble of Contents
Comprehensive Loss
Comprehensive loss is comprised of the net loss and other comprehensive income (loss). Our other comprehensive income (loss) includes unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities and unrealized gains and losses and realized gains and losses reclassified into net loss on cash flow hedges, as reflected in the consolidated statements of comprehensive loss.
Net Loss Per Share
Basic net loss per share is computed by dividing the net loss by the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period, less shares subject to repurchase.
D
iluted earnings per share adjusts basic earnings per share for all potentially dilutive common stock equivalents outstanding during the period. Potentially dilutive securities consist primarily of stock options, share purchase rights under the ESPP, unvested RSUs, unvested PSAs, unvested common stock and shares related to convertible senior notes. Since we have reported net losses for all periods presented, we have excluded all potentially dilutive securities from the calculation of the diluted net loss per share, as their effect is antidilutive. Accordingly, basic and diluted net loss per share is the same for all periods presented.
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements
In October 2021, the FASB issued ASU No. 2021-08, Business Combinations (Topic 805) on Accounting for Contract Assets and Contract Liabilities from Contracts with Customers. This standard requires contract assets and contract liabilities from contracts with customers that are acquired in a business combination to be recognized and measured as if the acquirer had originated the original contract. Previously, acquired contract assets and liabilities were measured at fair value. We early adopted this standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2022 and it did not have a material impact to the consolidated financial statements.
In June 2020, the FASB issued ASU No. 2020-06. This standard removes the separation model for convertible debt with a cash conversion feature and convertible instruments with a beneficial conversion feature. Such convertible debt will be accounted for as a single liability measured at its amortized cost, as long as no other features require bifurcation and recognition as derivatives. The update also requires the if-converted method to be used for convertible instruments and the effect of potential share settlement be included in the diluted earnings per share calculation when an instrument may be settled in cash or shares. We adopted this standard effective on August 1, 2022, the beginning of fiscal 2023, using the modified retrospective method. In accordance with the adoption of ASU 2020-06 and using the modified retrospective method, prior period amounts have not been adjusted.
For further information, refer to Convertible Senior Notes section in this Note 1, Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted
In November 2023, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU No. 2023-07,
Segment Reporting (Topic 280): Improvements to Reportable Segment Disclosures
, which requires disclosure of incremental segment information on an annual and interim basis. This standard is effective for us in the annual periods beginning in fiscal 2025 and interim periods beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2026. We are currently evaluating the potential impact of this standard on financial statement disclosures.
In December 2023, the FASB issued 2023-09,
Income Taxes (Topic 740): Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures.
The amended guidance enhances income tax disclosures primarily related to the effective tax rate reconciliation and income taxes paid information. This guidance requires disclosures of specific categories in the effective tax rate reconciliation and further information on reconciling items meeting a quantitative threshold. In addition, the amended guidance requires
104
T
a
ble of Contents
disaggregating income taxes paid (net of refunds received) by federal, state and foreign taxes. It also requires disaggregating individual jurisdictions in which income taxes paid (net of refunds received) is equal to or greater than 5% of total income taxes paid (net of refunds received). This standard is effective for us in the annual periods beginning in fiscal 2026 and interim periods beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2027. We are currently evaluating the potential impact of this standard on financial statement disclosures.
Note 2.
Revenue Recognition
Disaggregation of Revenue
Subscription and support revenue is recognized over time and accounted for approximately
97
% of our revenue for each of fiscal 2024, fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022, respectively.
The following table summarizes the revenue by region based on the shipping address of customers who have contracted to use our cloud platform:
____
The following table summarizes the revenue from contracts by type of customer:
Significant Customers
No single customer accounted for 10% or more of the total revenue or the total balance of accounts receivable, net in the periods presented.
Contract Balances
Contract liabilities consist of deferred revenue and include payments received in advance of performance under the contract. Such amounts are recognized as revenue over the contractual period. Deferred revenue, including current and noncurrent balances as of July 31, 2024 and July 31, 2023 was $
1,895.0
million and $
1,439.7
million, respectively. In fiscal 2024, fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022 we recognized revenue of $
1,277.8
million, $
919.9
million and $
570.3
million, respectively, that was included in the corresponding contract liability balance at the beginning of the related fiscal year.
105
T
a
ble of Contents
We receive payments from customers based upon contractual billing schedules and accounts receivable are recorded when the right to consideration becomes unconditional. Payment terms on invoiced amounts are typically
30
days but may be up to
90
days for some of our channel partners. Contract assets include amounts related to our contractual right to consideration for both completed and partially completed performance obligations that may not have been invoiced and such amounts have historically not been material.
Remaining Performance Obligations
The typical subscription and support term is
one
to
three years
. Most of our subscription and support contracts are non-cancelable over the contractual term. However, customers typically have the right to terminate their contracts for cause, if we fail to perform. As of July 31, 2024, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was $
4,417.6
million. We expect to recognize
48
% of the transaction price over the next
12
months and
94
% of the transaction price over the next
three years
, with the remainder recognized thereafter.
Costs to Obtain and Fulfill a Contract
We capitalize sales commission and associated payroll taxes paid to sales personnel that are incremental to the acquisition of channel partner and direct customer contracts. These costs are recorded as deferred contract acquisition costs in the consolidated balance sheets. We determine whether costs should be deferred based on our sales compensation plans, if the commissions are in fact incremental and would not have occurred absent the customer contract.
Sales commissions for renewal of a contract are not considered commensurate with the commissions paid for the acquisition of the initial contract given the substantive difference in commission rates in proportion to their respective contract values. Commissions paid upon the initial acquisition of a contract are amortized over an estimated period of benefit of
five years
while commissions paid for renewal contracts are amortized over the contractual term of the renewals. Amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs is recognized on a straight-line basis commensurate with the pattern of revenue recognition and included in sales and marketing expense in the consolidated statements of operations.
We determine the period of benefit for commissions paid for the acquisition of the initial contract by taking into consideration the expected subscription term and expected renewals of our customer contracts, the duration of our relationships with our customers, customer retention data, our technology development lifecycle and other factors. We periodically review the carrying amount of deferred contract acquisition costs to determine whether events or changes in circumstances have occurred that could impact the period of benefit of these deferred costs. We did not recognize any impairment losses of deferred contract acquisition costs during the periods presented.
The activity of the deferred contract acquisition costs consisted of the following:
106
T
a
ble of Contents
The outstanding balance of the deferred contract acquisition costs consisted of the following:
107
T
a
ble of Contents
Note 3.
Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments
Cash equivalents and short-term investments consisted of the following as of July 31, 2024:
Cash equivalents and short-term investments consisted of the following as of July 31, 2023:
108
T
a
ble of Contents
The amortized cost and fair value of our short-term investments based on their stated maturities consisted of the following as of July 31, 2024:
Short-term investments that were in continuous unrealized loss position as of July 31, 2024 consisted of the following:
Short-term investments that were in continuous unrealized loss position as of July 31, 2023 consisted of the following:
We review the individual securities that have unrealized losses in our short-term investment portfolio on a regular basis. We evaluate, among others, whether we have the intention to sell any of these investments and whether it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell any of them before recovery of the amortized cost basis. Neither of these criteria were met in any period presented. We additionally evaluate whether the decline in fair value of the corporate debt securities below their amortized cost basis is related to credit losses or other factors. Based on this evaluation, we determined that unrealized losses of the above securities were primarily attributable to changes in interest rates and non credit-related factors. Accordingly, we determined that an allowance for credit losses was unnecessary for our short-term investments as of July 31, 2024 and 2023.
As of July 31, 2024 and 2023, we recorded $
10.7
million and $
7.2
million, respectively, of accrued interest receivable within prepaid expenses and other current assets in the consolidated balance sheets.
Strategic Investments
Our strategic investments consist primarily of non-marketable equity securities of privately held companies which do not have a readily determinable fair value.
These investments are primarily accounted for under the cost method as we have less than 20% ownership and do not have the ability to exercise significant influence over their operations.
As of
July 31,
109
T
a
ble of Contents
2024
and
2023,
the carrying amount of our strategic investments was
$
9.8
million and
$
7.8
million, respectively, and is included within other noncurrent assets in the consolidated balance sheets. There were no material events or circumstances impacting their carrying amount during the periods presented.
Note 4.
Fair Value Measurements
Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. We measure our financial assets and liabilities at fair value at each reporting period using a fair value hierarchy which requires us to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. A financial instrument’s classification within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Three levels of inputs may be used to measure fair value:
•
Level I - Observable inputs are unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
•
Level II - Observable inputs are quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets or inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly through market corroboration, for substantially the full term of the financial instruments; and
•
Level III - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. These inputs are based on our own assumptions used to measure assets and liabilities at fair value and require significant management judgment or estimation.
Our money market funds are classified within Level I due to the highly liquid nature of these assets and have quoted prices in active markets. Certain of our investments in available-for-sale securities (i.e., U.S. treasury securities, U.S. government agency securities, certificates of deposit and corporate debt securities), as well as our assets and liabilities arising from our foreign currency forward contracts and our interest rate swap contracts, are classified within Level II. The fair value of our Level II financial assets and liabilities is determined by using inputs based on non-binding market consensus prices that are primarily corroborated by observable market data or quoted market prices for similar instruments, for substantially the full term of the financial assets and liabilities.
110
T
a
ble of Contents
Assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis consisted of the following as of July 31, 2024:
(1)
Included within prepaid expenses and other current assets in the consolidated balance sheets.
(2)
Included within other noncurrent assets in the consolidated balance sheets.
(3)
Included within accrued expenses and other current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.
(4)
Included within other noncurrent liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.
111
T
a
ble of Contents
Assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis consisted of the following as of July 31, 2023:
(1)
Included within prepaid expenses and other current assets in the consolidated balance sheets.
(2)
Included within other noncurrent assets in the consolidated balance sheets.
(3)
Included within accrued expenses and other current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.
(4)
Included within other noncurrent liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.
We did not have transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy of assets measured at fair value during the periods presented.
Refer to Note 10, Convertible Senior Notes, for the carrying amount and estimated fair value of our convertible senior notes as of July 31, 2024 and 2023.
112
T
a
ble of Contents
Note 5.
Balance Sheet Components
Property and Equipment and Purchased Intangible Assets
Property and equipment consisted of the following:
(1)
In August 2023, we extended the useful lives of hosting equipment from
four
to
five years
. Refer to Note 1, Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, for further information.
Purchased intangible assets consist of internet protocol (IP) addresses and source codes, which are amortized on a straight-line basis over an estimated useful life of
10
years. As of July 31, 2024, their historical cost and accumulated amortization were $
12.4
million and $
2.8
million, respectively. As of July 31, 2023, their historical cost and accumulated amortization were $
8.6
million and $
1.6
million, respectively. Purchased intangible assets are included within other noncurrent assets in the consolidated balance sheets.
We recognized depreciation and amortization expense on property and equipment and purchased intangible assets of $
66.3
million, $
55.8
million and $
40.5
million in fiscal 2024, fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022, respectively. Additionally, we recognized stock-based compensation expense on the amortization of capitalized stock-based compensation associated with capitalized internal-use software of
$
13.0
million
,
$
8.4
million
and
$
4.5
million
in fiscal 2024, fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022, respectively.
Accrued compensation
Accrued compensation consisted of the following:
113
T
a
ble of Contents
Note 6.
Business Combinations
Airgap Networks Inc.
On April 12, 2024, we completed the acquisition of Airgap Networks Inc. ("Airgap"), an early-stage technology company incorporated in the United States, for total purchase price consideration of $
124.4
million. We plan to integrate Airgap's technology into our cloud platform.
In addition to the consideration noted above, pursuant to the terms of the purchase agreement, certain Airgap employees who became our employees are entitled to receive deferred merger consideration with a fair value as of the grant date of $
20.3
million payable in the form of restricted shares of our common stock. These awards are subject to time-based vesting and will be recognized as stock-based compensation expense during the post-combination period. Additionally, in connection with this acquisition, we committed to issue replacement awards with a fair value as of the closing date of the acquisition of $
6.2
million, of which $
1.4
million attributable to pre-combination vesting was allocated to the purchase price consideration. The remaining balance is attributable to post-combination vesting and will be recognized as compensation expense during the post-combination period.
In connection with this acquisition, we completed a valuation of the acquired identifiable intangible assets as of April 12, 2024. The purchase price consideration was allocated on a preliminary basis, subject to working capital adjustment, to identified intangible assets, which include $
28.7
million of developed technology, $
3.1
million of customer relationships, and $
95.5
million of goodwill. The developed technology was valued using a replacement cost approach, which is based on the cost of a market participant to reconstruct a substitute asset of comparable utility. The customer relationships were also valued using the replacement cost approach, which is based on the cost a market participant would incur to generate the acquired portfolio of customers. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price paid over the fair value of the net assets acquired and is primarily attributable to the acquired workforce and expected operating synergies. The acquisition-related transaction expenses were not material and recorded as incurred within general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of operations for
fiscal 2024.
The acquisition qualified as a stock transaction for tax purposes. The goodwill is not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
During the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we may record adjustments to the fair value of the acquired intangible assets, deferred tax and goodwill.
114
T
a
ble of Contents
The preliminary allocation of the purchase price consideration consisted of the following:
Avalor Technologies Ltd.
On March 8, 2024 we completed the acquisition of Avalor Technologies Ltd. ("Avalor"), an early-stage technology company incorporated in Israel, for total purchase price consideration of $
256.7
million. We plan to integrate this company's technology into our cloud platform.
In addition to the consideration noted above, pursuant to the terms of the stock purchase agreement, certain Avalor employees who became our employees are entitled to receive deferred merger consideration with a fair value as of the grant date of $
46.5
million payable in the form of restricted shares of our common stock. These awards are subject to time-based vesting and will be recognized as stock-based compensation expense during the post-combination period. Additionally, in connection with this acquisition, we committed to issue replacement awards with a fair value as of the closing date of the acquisition of $
14.4
million, of which $
2.4
million attributable to pre-combination vesting was allocated to the purchase price consideration. The remaining balance is attributable to post-combination vesting and will be recognized as compensation expense during the post-combination period.
In connection with this acquisition, we completed a valuation of the acquired identifiable intangible assets as of March 8, 2024. The purchase price consideration was allocated on
a preliminary basis, s
ubject to working capital adjustment to identified intangible assets, which include $
14.7
million of developed technology, $
3.3
million of customer relationships, and $
229.2
million of goodwill. The developed technology was valued using a replacement cost approach, which is based on the cost of a market participant to reconstruct a substitute asset of comparable utility. The customer relationships were also valued using the replacement cost approach, which is based on the cost a market participant would incur to generate the acquired portfolio of customers. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price paid over the fair value of the net assets acquired and is primarily attributable to the acquired workforce and expected operating synergies. The acquisition-related transaction expenses were not material and recorded as incurred within general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of operations for fiscal 2024.
115
T
a
ble of Contents
The acquisition qualified as a stock transaction for tax purposes. The goodwill is not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
During the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we may record adjustments to the fair value of the acquired intangible assets, deferred tax and goodwill.
The preliminary allocation of the purchase price consideration consisted of the following:
Securelyshare Software Private Ltd.
On August 31, 2023, we completed the acquisition of Securelyshare Software Private Ltd. ("Securelyshare"), an early-stage technology company incorporated in India, for total purchase price consideration of $
5.3
million. We have integrated this company's technology into our cloud platform. The transaction was accounted for as a business combination. We recognized intangible assets of $
2.8
million for developed technology and goodwill of $
3.2
million. The developed technology is amortized over its economic useful life of
five years
. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price paid over the fair value of the net assets acquired and is primarily attributable to the acquired workforce and expected operating synergies. The acquisition qualified as a stock transaction for tax purposes.
The goodwill is not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The acquisition-related transaction expenses were not material and recorded as incurred within general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of operations for fiscal 2024.
Canonic Security Technologies Ltd.
On February 20, 2023, we completed the acquisition of Canonic Security Technologies Ltd. ("Canonic"), an early-stage technology company incorporated in Israel, for total purchase price consideration of
$
16.5
million
. We have integrated this company's technology into our cloud platform.
In addition to the cash consideration noted above, pursuant to the terms of the purchase agreement, certain of Canonic's employees who became our employees are entitled to receive deferred merger consideration with a fair value as of the grant date of
$
4.1
million
payable in the form of restricted shares of our common stock. These awards are subject to time-based vesting and will be recognized as stock-based compensation expense during the post-combination period.
116
T
a
ble of Contents
In connection with this acquisition, we completed a valuation of the acquired identifiable assets as of February 20, 2023. The allocation of the purchase price consideration resulted in the recognition of
$
10.6
million
of goodwill and
$
5.1
million
of developed technology. The developed technology was valued using a replacement cost approach, which is based on the cost of a market participant to reconstruct a substitute asset of comparable utility. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price paid over the fair value of the net assets acquired and is primarily attributable to the acquired workforce and expected operating synergies. The acquisition-related transaction expenses were not material and recorded as incurred within general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of operations for fiscal 2023.
The acquisition qualified as a stock transaction for tax purposes.
The goodwill is not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The allocation of the purchase price consideration consisted of the following:
ShiftRight, Inc.
On June 17, 2022, we completed the acquisition of ShiftRight, Inc. (“ShiftRight”), an early-stage technology company incorporated in the United States for a total purchase price consideration of
$
25.6
million
. We have integrated this company’s technology into our cloud platform.
In addition to the cash consideration noted above, pursuant to the terms of the purchase agreement, certain of ShiftRight's employees who became our employees are entitled to receive deferred merger consideration with a fair value as of the grant date of $
15.2
million payable in the form of restricted shares of our common stock. These awards are subject to time-based vesting and will be recognized as stock-based compensation expense during the post-combination period.
117
T
a
ble of Contents
In connection with this acquisition, we completed a valuation of the acquired intangible assets as of June 17, 2022. The allocation of the purchase price consideration resulted in the recognition of $
18.7
million of goodwill and $
7.1
million of developed technology. The developed technology was valued using a replacement cost approach, which is based on the cost of a market participant to reconstruct a substitute asset of comparable utility. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price paid over the fair value of the net assets acquired and is primarily attributable to the acquired workforce and expected operating synergies. The acquisition-related transaction expenses were not material and recorded as incurred within general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of operations for fiscal 2022.
The acquisition qualified as a stock transaction for tax purposes. The goodwill is not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The allocation of the purchase price consideration consisted of the following:
Other Business Combinations
In November 2021
, we completed a business acquisition for a total purchase price consideration of $
2.1
million, consisting of $
0.4
million paid in cash at closing and the issuance of shares of our common stock with an aggregate fair value of $
1.7
million at closing.
In addition to the cash consideration noted above, pursuant to the terms of the purchase agreement, certain employees of the acquired company who became our employees are entitled to receive deferred merger consideration payable in the form of restricted shares of our common stock. These awards are subject to time-based vesting and will be recognized as stock-based compensation expense during the post-combination period.
118
T
a
ble of Contents
Based on the valuation of the acquired intangible assets, the allocation of the purchase price consideration resulted in the recognition of $
1.6
million of developed technology and $
0.8
million of goodwill. The developed technology is amortized over its economic useful life of
5.0
years
. The acquisition-related transaction expenses were not material and recorded as incurred within general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of operations for
fiscal 2022.
The acquisition qualified as a stock transaction for tax purposes. Goodwill is not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
Pro Forma Financial Information
The pro forma financial information from the above business acquisitions, assuming the acquisition had occurred as of the beginning of the fiscal year prior to the fiscal year of the acquisition, as well as revenue and earnings generated during the current fiscal year, were not material for disclosure purposes.
Note 7.
Goodwill and Acquired Intangible Assets
Goodwill
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill consisted of the following:
Acquired Intangible Assets
Acquired intangible assets consist of developed technology and customer relationships acquired through our business acquisitions and asset acquisitions. Acquired intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives.
During fiscal 2024, in connection with the acquisition of Airgap, Avalor and Securelyshare, we acquired developed technology and customer relationships with a fair value of $
46.2
million and $
6.4
million, respectively, and each of them with an estimated useful life of
five years
. For further information refer to Note 6, Business Combinations.
Changes in acquired intangible assets for July 31, 2024 and 2023, consisted of the following:
As of July 31, 2023, the weighted-average remaining useful life for developed technology and customer relationships was
3.0
years and
2.3
years
, respectively.
119
T
a
ble of Contents
Amortization
expense of acquired intangible assets was $
14.6
million, $
11.1
million and $
9.0
million in fiscal 2024, fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022, respectively. Amortization expense of developed technology and customer relationships is included primarily within cost of revenue and sales and marketing expenses, respectively, in the consolidated statements of operations.
Future amortization expense of acquired intangible assets as of July 31, 2024 consists of the following:
Note 8.
Derivative Instruments
Foreign Currency Forward Contracts
As a global business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk. Substantially all of our revenue is transacted in U.S. dollars; however, a portion of our cost of revenue and operating expenditures are incurred outside of the United States and are denominated in foreign currencies, making them subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In order to mitigate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our future cash flows and earnings, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts, which we designate as cash flow hedges. The maximum length of time over which forecasted foreign currency denominated operating expenses are hedged is
21
months. All cash flow hedges were considered effective for all periods presented.
We also use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate variability in gains and losses generated from the remeasurement of certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. The outstanding non-designated derivative instruments are carried at fair value with the change in fair value recorded in other expense, net in the consolidated statement of operations in the same period as the changes in fair value from the remeasurement of the underlying assets and liabilities. Cash flows from such derivatives are classified as operating activities. These foreign exchange contracts typically have maturities of approximately
one
to
four months
. Changes in the fair value of these derivatives were not material for all periods presented.
As of July 31, 2024 and July 31, 2023, the total notional amount of our outstanding designated foreign currency forward contracts was $
544.5
million and $
457.6
million, respectively, and for our outstanding non-designated foreign currency forward contracts was $
352.8
million and $
182.9
million, respectively. As of July 31, 2024, an estimated $
2.2
million of the unrealized gain related to our cash flow hedges are expected to be released into earnings over the next 12 months. Refer to Note 4, Fair Value Measurements, for the fair value of our derivative instruments as reported on the consolidated balance sheet as of July 31, 2024 and July 31, 2023.
Changes in the fair value of our non-designated derivative instruments recognized within
other expense, net
in the consolidated statement of operations were
not material for all periods presented.
120
T
a
ble of Contents
The changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) related to our cash flow hedges consisted of the following:
(1)
(Gains) losses related to our cash flow hedges reclassified from AOCI into the consolidated statement of operations consisted of the following
:
Our derivative contracts expose us to credit risk to the extent that the counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of the underlying contracts. We mitigate this credit risk by transacting with major financial institutions with high credit ratings and standards. We periodically assess the creditworthiness of our counterparties to ensure they continue to meet our credit quality requirements. We also enter into master netting arrangements, which permit net settlement of transactions with the same counterparty. The potential impact of these rights of set-off associated with our derivative instruments was not material as of July 31, 2024 and July 31, 2023. We are not required to pledge, and are not entitled to receive, cash collateral related to these derivative instruments. We do not enter into derivative contracts for trading or speculative purposes.
Interest Rate Swap Contracts
During fiscal 2023, we entered into interest rate swaps contracts, maturing on July 1, 2025, designated as fair value hedges intended to hedge a portion of our fair value risk exposure due to changing interest rates by economically converting the fixed interest rate of a certain tranche of our convertible senior notes to a floating interest rate. As of
July 31, 2024 and July 31, 2023, the carrying amount of the hedged convertible senior notes was $
498.2
million and $
496.4
million, respectively. The total notional amount of our outstanding interest rate swaps was $
500.0
million as of July 31, 2024 and July 31, 2023. The gains and losses related to changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps are included within interest expense in the consolidated statement of operations and substantially offset changes in the fair value of the hedged portion of the underlying convertible senior notes that are attributable to the changes in underlying benchmark interest rates. As of July 31, 2024 and July 31, 2023, the cumulative amount of fair value hedge accounting adjustments included in the carrying amount of the convertible senior notes was $
4.1
million and $
8.3
million, respectively.
121
T
a
ble of Contents
The effect of derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges included within interest expense in the statement of operations consisted of the following:
Note 9.
Restructuring and Other Charges
On March 1, 2023, we announced a restructuring plan as a part of our planned efforts to streamline operations and to align people, roles, and projects to our strategic priorities. These actions included the reduction of our worldwide headcount by approximately
3
%.
During fiscal
2023,
we incurred $
7.6
million of restructuring charges, consisting of $
6.6
million of employee severance and benefit charges and $
1.0
million of stock-based compensation expense related to modified equity incentive awards. These charges were recorded within
restructuring and other charges
in the consolidated statements of operations.
The restructuring plan was completed during the fiscal quarter ended October 31, 2023.
Note 10.
Convertible Senior Notes
On June 25, 2020, we issued $
1,150.0
million in aggregate principal amount of
0.125
% convertible senior notes due 2025 (the "Notes"), including the exercise in full by the initial purchasers of the Notes of their option to purchase an additional $
150.0
million principal amount of the Notes. The Notes are unsecured obligations and bear interest at a rate of
0.125
% per year and interest is payable semiannually in arrears on January 1 and July 1 of each year, beginning on January 1, 2021. The Notes mature on July 1, 2025, unless earlier converted, redeemed or repurchased. The total net proceeds from the offering, after deducting initial purchase discounts and other debt issuance costs, was $
1,130.5
million
.
The Notes
do not contain any financial covenants or restrictions on the payments of dividends, the incurrence of indebtedness or the issuance or repurchase of securities by us or any of our subsidiaries.
The following table presents details of the Notes:
The Notes are convertible at the option of the holders at any time prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding April 1, 2025, only under the following circumstances:
•
During any fiscal quarter commencing after the fiscal quarter ending on October 31, 2020 (and only during such fiscal quarter), if the last reported sale price of our common stock for at least
20
trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of
30
consecutive trading days ending on and including, the last trading day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter is greater than or equal to
130
% of the conversion price of the Notes on each applicable trading day;
122
T
a
ble of Contents
•
During the
five
-business day period after any
five
consecutive trading day period (the “measurement period”) in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of the Notes for each trading day of the measurement period was less than
98
% of the product of the last reported sale price of our common stock and the conversion rate of the Notes on each such trading day;
•
If we call any or all of the Notes for redemption, the Notes called for redemption (or, at our election all Notes) may be submitted for conversion at any time prior to the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the redemption date; or
•
upon the occurrence of specified corporate events as set forth within the indenture governing the Notes.
On or after April 1, 2025, until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders may convert, all or any portion of their Notes at any time, in multiples of $1,000 principal amount, at their option regardless of the foregoing circumstances. Upon conversion, we will satisfy the conversion obligation by paying or delivering, as the case may be, cash, shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, at our election. It is our current intent to settle the principal amount of the Notes in cash.
During the three months ended July 31, 2024, the conditions allowing holders of the Notes to convert were not met. As of July 31, 2024, we classified the Notes within current liabilities as they mature on July 1, 2025. As of July 31, 2023, we classified the Notes within noncurrent liabilities as we had the election of repaying the Notes in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of both. Conversion notices received were not material for any period presented.
Prior to July 5, 2023, we were not permitted to redeem the Notes. On and subsequent to July 5, 2023, and prior to the 21st scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date, we may redeem for cash all or any portion of the Notes, at our option, if the last reported sale price of our common stock has been at least
130
% of the conversion price then in effect for at least
20
trading days (whether or not consecutive) during any
30
consecutive trading day-period (including the last trading day of such period) ending on, and including, the trading day immediately preceding the date on which we provide notice of redemption at a redemption price equal to
100
% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date. No sinking fund is provided for the Notes. If we redeem less than all the outstanding Notes, and only Notes called for redemption may be converted in connection with such partial redemption, at least $
100.0
million aggregate principal amount of Notes must be outstanding and not subject to such partial redemption as of the relevant redemption notice date.
In the event of a corporate event that constitutes a “fundamental change" (as defined in the indenture governing the Notes), holders of the Notes will have the right, at their option to require us to repurchase for cash all or any portion of the Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, at a purchase price equal to
100
% of the principal amount of the Notes plus any accrued and unpaid interest, up to but excluding, the date of such repurchase. In addition, following certain corporate events that occur prior to the maturity date, or if we issue a notice of redemption, we will, in certain circumstances, increase the conversion rate for a holder who elects to convert its Notes in connection with such corporate event or notice of redemption, as the case may be.
In accounting for the issuance of the Notes and the related transaction costs, we separated the Notes into liability and equity components. The carrying amount of the liability component was initially calculated by measuring the fair value of similar liabilities that do not have associated convertible features utilizing the interest rate of
5.75
%. The carrying amount of the equity component representing the conversion option was $
278.5
million and was determined by deducting the fair value of the liability component from the par value of the Notes. This difference represents the debt discount that is amortized to interest expense over the term of the Notes using the effective interest rate method. The equity component was recorded in additional paid-in capital and is not remeasured as long as it continues to meet the conditions for equity classification.
123
T
a
ble of Contents
Total issuance costs of $
19.5
million related to the Notes were allocated between liability, totaling $
14.8
million, and equity, totaling $
4.7
million, in the same proportion as the allocation of the total proceeds to the liability and equity components. Issuance costs attributable to the liability component are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the Notes. The excess of the principal amount of the liability component over its carrying amount is amortized to interest expense over the contractual term of the Notes at an effective interest rate of
6.03
%. The issuance costs attributable to the equity component were netted against additional paid-in capital.
The amount recorded for the equity component of the Notes was $
273.4
million, net of allocated issuance costs of
$
4.7
million and
deferred tax impact of $
0.4
million.
Upon adoption of
ASU 2020-06 as of August 1, 2022, we accounted for our Notes as a single unit of debt and no longer record the conversion feature in equity. This further eliminated the need for amortization of the debt discount as interest expense and the portion of the issuance costs initially allocated to equity is now classified as debt and amortized as interest expense. As of August 1, 2022, the adoption of this new standard resulted in an increase of $
169.9
million to the carrying amount of the convertible senior notes, a decrease of $
273.7
million to additional paid-in capital and a cumulative-effect adjustment of $
103.8
million to accumulated deficit.
For further information, refer to Note 1, Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.
During fiscal 2023, we entered into interest rate swap contracts designated as fair value hedges of certain of our Notes. For further information refer to Note 8, Derivative Instruments.
The net carrying amount of the Notes consisted of the following:
The interest expense related to the Notes consisted of the following:
(1)
The decrease in total interest expense beginning in fiscal 2023, was due to the derecognition of unamortized debt discount partially offset by the increase in the amortization of issuance costs previously recognized in equity. These changes were the result of adoption of ASU 2020-06, as described in Note 1, Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.
The total fair value of the Notes was $
1,465.5
million and $
1,411.4
million as of July 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. The fair value was determined based on the closing trading price per $1,000 of the Notes as of the last day of trading for the period. We consider the fair value of the Notes as of July 31, 2024 and 2023 to be a Level II measurement as they are not
124
T
a
ble of Contents
actively traded. The fair value of the Notes is primarily affected by the trading price of our common stock and market interest rates.
In connection with the pricing of the Notes, we entered into capped call transactions with the option counterparties (the "Capped Calls"). The Capped Calls each have an initial strike price of $
150.80
per share, subject to certain adjustments, which corresponds to the initial conversion price of the Notes. The Capped Calls have an initial cap price of $
246.76
per share, subject to certain adjustments. The Capped Calls are generally expected to reduce potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of the Notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of the converted Notes, as the case may be, with such reduction and/or offset subject to a cap. The Capped Calls are subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of specified extraordinary events affecting us, including merger events, tender offers and the announcement of such events. In addition, the Capped Calls are subject to certain specified additional disruption events that may give rise to a termination of the Capped Calls, including nationalization, insolvency or delisting, changes in law, failures to deliver, insolvency filings and hedging disruptions. For accounting purposes, the Capped Calls are separate transactions, and not part of the terms of the Notes. As the Capped Calls qualify for a scope exception from derivative accounting for instruments that are both indexed to the issuer's own stock and classified in stockholder's equity in the consolidated balance sheet, the premium of $
145.2
million paid for the purchase of the Capped Calls was recorded as a reduction to additional paid-in capital and will not be remeasured. We have not exercised any Capped Call options during any of the periods presented.
125
T
a
ble of Contents
Note 11.
Operating Leases
The following is a summary of our operating lease costs:
The following table presents information about our leases in the consolidated balance sheets:
Cash paid, net of tenant incentives for amounts included in the measurement of operating lease liabilities was
$
49.2
million, $
32.2
million
and
$
27.7
million
for fiscal 2024, fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022, respectively.
126
T
a
ble of Contents
Maturities of operating lease liabilities consisted of the following as of July 31, 2024:
As of July 31, 2024, we have entered into non-cancelable operating leases with a term greater than 12 months that have not yet commenced with undiscounted future minimum payments of
$
9.6
million
, which are excluded from the above table. These operating leases will commence between August 2024 and November 2024 with lease terms of approximately
3.0
years.
Note 12.
Commitments and Contingencies
Non-cancelable Purchase Obligations
In the normal course of business, we enter into non-cancelable purchase commitments with various third parties to purchase products and services such as cloud infrastructure capacity, subscription-based cloud service arrangements, technology equipment, corporate and marketing events and consulting services.
The maturities of non-cancelable purchase obligations with a remaining term in excess of one year as of July 31, 2024 consisted of the following:
Other Commitments
As of July 31, 2024 and
2023
, we had outstanding irrevocable standby unsecured letters of credits and a guarantee for an aggregate value of
$
2.5
million and $
2.1
million, respectively
which serve as security under certain real estate leases included in Note 11, Operating Leases.
Legal Matters
Litigation and Claims
We are a party to various litigation matters from time to time and subject to claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, including patent, commercial, product liability, employment, class action, whistleblower and other litigation and
127
T
a
ble of Contents
claims, as well as governmental and other regulatory investigations and proceedings. In addition, third parties may from time to time assert claims against us in the form of letters and other communications. There is no pending or threatened legal proceeding to which we are a party that, in our opinion, is likely to have a material adverse effect on our future financial results or operations; however, the results of litigation and claims are inherently unpredictable. Regardless of the outcome, litigation can have an adverse impact on us because of defense and settlement costs, diversion of management resources and other factors. The expense of litigation and the timing of this expense from period to period are difficult to estimate, subject to change and could adversely affect our results of operations.
128
T
a
ble of Contents
Note 13.
Stock-Based Compensation
Equity Incentive Plan
Equity incentive awards which may be granted to eligible participants under our Fiscal Year 2018 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2018 Plan") include restricted stock units, restricted stock, stock options, nonstatutory stock options, stock appreciation rights, performance units and performance shares.
As of July 31, 2024, a total of
53.1
million shares of common stock have been reserved for the issuance of equity awards under the 2018 Plan, of which
30.9
million shares were available for grant. The number of shares of common stock available for issuance under the 2018 Plan also includes an annual increase on the first day of each fiscal year pursuant to its automatic annual increase provision.
Stock Options
The activity of stock options for fiscal 2024 consisted of the following:
The weighted-average grant-date fair value per share of stock options granted was $
117.41
and
$
88.97
during fiscal
2024
and fiscal
2023
respectively. There were
no
stock options granted during fiscal
2022
.
The total grant-date fair value of stock options vested was $
1.4
million, $
1.5
million and $
3.9
million during fiscal 2024, fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022, respectively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised was $
157.8
million, $
56.5
million and $
230.1
million, during fiscal 2024,
fiscal
2023 and fiscal 2022, respectively
.
We estimate the fair value of stock options using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions:
129
T
a
ble of Contents
The expected term was estimated using the simplified method. The expected volatility was determined using a weighted-average of the historical volatility of our common stock and peer volatility. Peer volatility was calculated as the average of historical volatilities of selected industry peers corresponding to the expected term of the awards. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant for the expected term of the stock-based award. Our expected dividend yield is zero, as we have not and do not currently intend to declare dividends in the foreseeable future.
Restricted Stock Units and Performance Stock Awards
The 2018 Plan allows for the grant of RSUs and PSAs. Generally, RSUs are subject to a
four-year
vesting period.
The right to earn PSAs is subject to the achievement of the defined and approved performance metrics and continuous employment service. The performance metrics are defined and approved by the compensation committee of our board of directors or by our senior management for certain types of awards. Generally, earned PSAs are subject to additional time-based vesting.
As of July 31, 2024, outstanding PSAs for which their performance metrics have not been defined and/or approved were not material. As of July 31, 2024, these awards are not considered granted for accounting purposes and accordingly, have been excluded from the table below
.
The activity of RSUs and PSAs consisted of the following for fiscal 2024:
The aggregate fair value, as of the respective vesting dates, of RSUs and PSAs vested was $
684.4
million, $
462.3
million and $
694.9
million, during fiscal 2024, fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022, respectively.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
In fiscal 2018, we adopted the Fiscal Year 2018 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP"). Through July 31, 2024, a total of
10.3
million shares of common stock have been reserved for issuance under the ESPP, out of which
6.3
million shares were available for future grant as of July 31, 2024. The number of shares reserved includes an annual increase on the first day of each fiscal year pursuant to the ESPP's automatic annual increase provision. The ESPP provides for consecutive offering periods that will typically have a duration of approximately
24
months in length and are comprised of
four
purchase periods of approximately
six months
in length. The offering periods are scheduled to start on the first trading day on or after June 15 and December 15 of each year. The ESPP contains a reset provision under which the offering period resets if the fair market value of our common stock on the purchase date is less than the fair market value on the first day of the offering period. During fiscal 2024, fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022, employees purchased under the ESPP approximately
0.5
million,
0.4
million and
0.3
million shares of common stock, respectively, at an average purchase price of $
106.46
, $
99.59
and $
108.61
, respectively, with cash proceeds of $
52.0
million, $
42.3
million and $
34.6
million, respectively.
ESPP employee payroll contributions accrued as of July 31, 2024 and 2023, were $
8.8
million and $
7.4
million, respectively, and are included within accrued compensation in the consolidated balance sheets. Payroll contributions accrued
130
T
a
ble of Contents
as of July 31, 2024 will be used to purchase shares at the end of the current ESPP purchase period ending on December 16, 2024. Payroll contributions ultimately used to purchase shares are reclassified to stockholders' equity on the purchase date.
In June 2024, one outstanding ESPP offering period was reset and automatically rolled over into a new ESPP offering period that started on June 17, 2024. The reset was accounted for as a modification, which resulted in an incremental stock-based compensation of $
2.7
million, which will be recognized over the remaining term of the modified ESPP offering period of
18
months. In December 2022, certain outstanding ESPP offering periods were reset and automatically rolled over into a new ESPP offering period that started on December 15, 2022. The reset was accounted for as a modification, which resulted in an incremental stock-based compensation of $
8.3
million, which has been recognized over the remaining term of the modified ESPP offering periods, ranging from approximately
6
months to
18
months.
The fair value of the purchase rights offered under the ESPP was estimated on the grant date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions:
The expected term represents the term from the first day of the offering period to the purchase dates within each offering period. The expected volatility was based on the historical volatility of our common stock. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant for the expected term of the stock-based award. Our expected dividend yield is zero, as we have not and do not currently intend to declare dividends in the foreseeable future.
Departure of the Chief Operating Officer of the Company
In February 2024, our Chief Operating Officer, who led sales activities, resigned from his position at the Company. In connection with his resignation, we recognized a reversal of stock-based compensation expense of $
11.7
million associated with the cancellation of unvested incentive equity awards, which was recognized in sales and marketing expenses in the consolidated statement of operations in fiscal
2024.
Departure of the President of the Company
In October 2022, our President, who led research and development activities, resigned from his position as President of the Company, but continued to serve as a member of our Board of Directors through January 2024. In connection with his resignation as President of the Company, we recognized a reversal of stock-based compensation expense of $
9.9
million associated with the cancellation of unvested incentive equity awards, which was recognized in research and development expenses in the consolidated statement of operations in fiscal
2023.
Modification of Equity Incentive Awards
During fiscal 2023, we modified the equity incentive awards of certain employees. In accordance with the accounting for the modification, we recognized stock-based compensation expense of $
6.0
million in research and development expenses and $
1.3
million in sales and marketing expenses, respectively, in the consolidated statement of operations in fiscal
2023.
The stock-based compensation expense from modified equity incentive awards in fiscal 2024 and fiscal
2022
was not material.
131
T
a
ble of Contents
Stock-based Compensation Expense
The components of stock-based compensation expense recognized in the consolidated statements of operations consisted of the following:
As of July 31, 2024, the unrecognized stock-based compensation cost related to outstanding equity-based awards, including awards for which the service inception date has been met but the grant date has not been met, was $
1,519.8
million, which we expect to be amortized over a weighted-average period of
2.8
years.
During fiscal 2024, fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022, we capitalized stock-based compensation primarily associated with the development of software for internal-use of $
27.2
million, $
17.2
million and $
11.5
million, respectively.
Note 14.
Common Stock
Holders of our common stock are entitled to
one
vote for each share of common stock held and are not entitled to receive dividends unless declared by our board of directors.
Common Stock Reserved for Future Issuance
The following table summarizes our shares of common stock reserved for future issuance:
132
T
a
ble of Contents
Note 15.
Income Taxes
The following table sets forth the geographical breakdown of the income (loss) before the provision for income taxes:
The following table sets forth the components of the provision for income taxes:
During fiscal 2024, fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022, we recognized tax benefits on total stock-based compensation expense of $
23.0
million, $
13.4
million and $
1.4
million, respectively, which are reflected within the provision for income taxes in the consolidated statements of operations.
133
T
a
ble of Contents
The following table presents the reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to our effective rate:
Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2024 differs from the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to a portion of our earnings that are taxed at different rates from the U.S. statutory rate, the benefit of stock compensation deductions, withholding taxes related to customer payments in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business, and the impact of the valuation allowance we maintain against our U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets. During fiscal 2024, we also effectuated certain tax planning actions which reduced the amount of waived deductions under Section 59A related to our fiscal 2023.
Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2023 differs from the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to a portion of our earnings that are taxed at different rates from the U.S. statutory rate, the effect of waived deductions under Section 59A, the benefit of stock compensation deductions, withholding taxes related to customer payments in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business, and the impact of the valuation allowance we maintain against our U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets.
Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2022 differs from the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to our foreign earnings that are taxed at different rates than the U.S. statutory rate, the benefit of stock compensation deductions, withholding taxes related to customer payments in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business, and the impact of the valuation allowance we maintain against our U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets.
During fiscal 2024 and 2022, we recognized an income tax benefit of $
5.2
million and $
1.0
million, respectively, as a result of a release in our valuation allowance on deferred tax assets due to deferred taxes recorded as part of the acquisition accounting of business combinations
. During
fiscal
2023
, we did
no
t recognize income tax benefits from business combinations. Refer to Note 6, Business Combinations, for further information.
134
T
a
ble of Contents
The following table presents the tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of our deferred tax assets and liabilities:
A deferred tax liability has not been recognized on the excess of the amount for financial reporting over the tax basis of investments in foreign subsidiaries that are indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S.
Income taxes are generally incurred upon a repatriation of assets, a sale, or a liquidation of the subsidiary.
The excess of the amount for financial reporting over the tax basis in the investments in foreign subsidiaries, as well as the unrecognized deferred tax liability, are not material for the periods presented.
The following table presents the change in the valuation allowance:
The realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of sufficient taxable income of the appropriate character in future periods. We regularly assess our ability to realize the deferred tax assets on a quarterly basis and we establish a valuation allowance if it is more-likely-than-not that some portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We weigh all available positive and negative evidence, including our earnings history and results of recent operations, scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, and tax planning strategies. Due to the weight of objectively verifiable negative evidence, including our history of losses, we believe that it is more likely than not that our U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets will not be realized as of July 31, 2024 and 2023. Accordingly, we have maintained
135
T
a
ble of Contents
a full valuation allowance against such deferred tax asset
s.
Due to the weight of objectively verifiable negative evidence, our U.K. deferred tax assets are not more likely than not to be realized in the future and a full valuation allowance has been maintained as of July 31, 2024 and 2023.
The amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable, however, could be adjusted if estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward period are reduced or increased or if objective negative evidence in the form of cumulative losses is no longer present and additional weight may be given to subjective evidence such as our projections for growth. In the event we determine that we will be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets will be reversed in the period in which we make such determination. The release of a valuation allowance may cause greater volatility in the effective tax rate in the periods in which the valuation allowance is released. The valuation allowance against our U.S. federal, state and U.K. deferred tax assets increased by $
162.5
million, $
117.5
million and $
208.2
million in fiscal 2024, fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022, respectively.
The increase in the valuation allowance in fiscal
2024
, fiscal
2023
and fiscal
2022
was related to tax losses for which insufficient positive evidence exists to support their realizability.
As of July 31, 2024, we have net operating loss carryforwards for U.S. federal income tax purposes of $
1,497.6
million, which are available to offset future federal taxable income. These net operating losses will carry forward indefinitely. As of July 31, 2024, we have net operating loss carryforwards for state income tax purposes of $
630.8
million. Beginning in 2024, $
554.9
million of state net operating losses will begin to expire at different periods. The remaining $
75.9
million of state net operating losses will carry forward indefinitely. As of July 31, 2024, we had foreign net operating loss carryforward of $
75.6
million, all of which will be carried forward indefinitely.
As of July 31, 2024, we also had U.S. federal, California and foreign research and development and other tax credit carryforwards of $
133.4
million, $
73.9
million and $
1.9
million respectively. If not utilized, the federal research and development tax credit carryforwards will begin expiring at different periods beginning in 2033. Our California research and development tax credits may be carried forward indefinitely. Foreign tax credits will begin to expire in the fiscal year ending 2029.
Federal and state tax laws impose restrictions on the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards in the event of a change in our ownership as defined by the Internal Revenue Code, Sections 382. Under Section 382 of the Code, substantial changes in our ownership and the ownership of acquired companies may limit the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that are available to offset taxable income. The annual limitation would not automatically result in the loss of net operating loss carryforwards but may limit the amount available in any given future period.
We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. As of July 31, 2024, all years are open for examination and may become subject to examination in the future. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and determining our income tax expense for the fiscal year. During the ordinary course of business, there are transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our estimate of the potential outcome of any tax position is subject to management’s assessment of relevant risks, facts and circumstances existing at that time. These unrecognized tax benefits are established when we believe that certain positions might be challenged despite the belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. We recognize interest and penalties associated with our unrecognized tax benefits as a component of our income tax expense. For the periods presented, we did not have material interest or penalties associated with the unrecognized tax benefits in the consolidated financial statements.
We had $
63.9
million of gross unrecognized tax benefits as of July 31, 2024, of which $
2.9
million would affect our effective tax rate if recognized. The remaining gross unrecognized tax benefits relate to income tax positions which, if recognized, would be in the form of additional deferred tax assets that would be offset by a valuation allowance. As of July 31, 2024, we do not believe that our estimates, as otherwise provided for, on such tax positions will significantly increase or
136
T
a
ble of Contents
decrease within the next twelve months. We recognize interest and penalties related to our unrecognized tax benefits within our provision for income taxes. The amount of interest and penalties accrued as of July 31, 2024 were insignificant.
The changes in our gross unrecognized tax benefits consisted of the following:
Note 16.
Net Loss Per Share
Basic net loss per share is computed by dividing the net loss by the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period, less shares subject to repurchase. The diluted net loss per share is computed by giving effect to all potential dilutive common stock equivalents outstanding for the period. For purposes of this calculation, our stock options, share purchase rights under the employee stock purchase plan, unvested RSUs, unvested PSAs, unvested common stock and shares related to the Notes are considered to be potential common stock equivalents.
The computation of basic and diluted net loss per share consisted of the following:
Since we have reported net losses for all periods presented, we have excluded all potentially dilutive securities from the calculation of the diluted net loss per share as their effect is antidilutive and accordingly, the basic and diluted net loss per share is the same for all periods presented.
Prior to the adoption of ASU 2020-06, we calculated the potential dilutive effect of the Notes under the treasury stock method. As a result, only the amount by which the conversion value exceeded the aggregate principal amount of the Notes (the “conversion spread”) was considered in the diluted earnings per share computation. The conversion spread only had a dilutive impact on diluted net income per share when the average market price of our common stock for a given reporting period exceeded the initial conversion price of $
150.80
per share for the Notes.
Upon the adoption of ASU 2020-06 on August 1, 2022, we calculated the potential dilutive effect of the Notes under the if-converted method. Under this method, diluted earnings per share are determined by assuming that all of the Notes were converted into shares of our common stock at the beginning of the reporting period.
137
T
a
ble of Contents
In connection with the issuance of the Notes, we entered into Capped Calls, which were not included for purposes of calculating the number of diluted shares outstanding, as their effect would have been anti-dilutive. The Capped Calls are expected to partially offset the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of the Notes. We have not exercised any of the Capped Calls as of July 31, 2024.
The following table summarizes the outstanding potentially dilutive securities that were excluded from the computation of diluted net loss per share as their effect would be antidilutive:
(1)
The number of unvested PSAs is estimated at
100
% of the target number of shares granted and excludes unvested PSAs for which performance conditions have not been established as of July 31, 2024, as they are not considered outstanding for accounting purposes. For further information refer to Note 13, Stock-Based Compensation.
(2)
The shares underlying the conversion option in the Notes were not considered in the calculation of diluted net loss per share for all the periods presented, as their effect would have been antidilutive. Based on the initial conversion price, the entire outstanding principal amount of the Notes as of July 31, 2024 would have been convertible into approximately
7.6
million
shares of our common stock, which is reflected in the above table. As we expect to settle the principal amount of the Notes in cash, only the amount by which the conversion value exceeds the aggregate principal amount of the Notes (the "conversion spread") is considered in the diluted earnings per share computation under the treasury stock method. The conversion spread has a dilutive impact on diluted net income per share when the average market price of our common stock for a given reporting period exceeds the initial conversion price of
$
150.80
per share for the Notes. Conversion notices received through July 31, 2024, have not been material.
Note 17.
Segment and Geographic Information
Our chief operating decision maker ("CODM") is our chief executive officer. We derive our revenue primarily from sales of subscription services to our cloud platform and related support services. Our CODM reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for the purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance. Accordingly, we determined that we operate as
one
operating segment.
Our long-lived assets consist of property and equipment and operating lease right-of-use assets, which are summarized by geographic area as follows:
Refer to Note 2, Revenue Recognition for information on revenue by geography.
138
Table of Contents
Note 18.
401(k) Plan
We have a defined-contribution plan intended to qualify under Section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code (the "401(k) Plan"). We contract with a third-party provider to act as a custodian and trustee, and to process and maintain the records of participant data. We make matching contributions to the plan for our employees. Our matching contributions to the plan were not material for all the periods presented.
139
Table of Contents
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
None.
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
We maintain “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rule 13a–15(e) and Rule 15d–15(e) under the Exchange Act that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of July 31, 2024. Based on such evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level.
Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate “internal control over financial reporting,” as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) and Rule 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act. Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of July 31, 2024 based on the criteria established in
Internal Control - Integrated Framework
(2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
Based on the results of its evaluation, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of July 31, 2024. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of July 31, 2024 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its report which is included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.
Management excluded Airgap, acquired on April 12, 2024, and Avalor, acquired on March 8, 2024, from its evaluation of internal control over financial reporting as of July 31, 2024. Airgap and Avalor are wholly-owned subsidiaries whose total assets and total revenues excluded from management’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting collectively represent approximately 0.4% and 0.1%, respectively, of the related consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the year ended July 31, 2024.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting identified in connection with the evaluation required by Rule 13a-15(d) and 15d-15(d) of the Exchange Act that occurred during the fiscal quarter ended July 31, 2024 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Inherent Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls
Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, believes that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting are designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and are effective at the reasonable assurance level. However, our management does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance
140
that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost–effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.
Item 9B. Other Information
Securities Trading Plans of Directors and Executive Officers
During our last fiscal quarter, the following officers and directors, as defined in Rule 16a-1(f), adopted a “Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangement” as defined in Regulation S-K Item 408, as follows:
On
June 29, 2024
,
Robert Schlossman
, the Company’s
chief legal officer and secretary
,
adopted
a Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangement providing for the sale from time to time of an aggregate of (i) up to
24,793
shares of our common stock and (ii) up to 100% of the shares of our common stock issued upon the settlement of 30,987 outstanding RSUs and PSUs, less the number of shares sold to cover tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting and settlement of such RSUs and PSUs. The trading arrangement is intended to satisfy the affirmative defense in Rule 10b5-1(c). The duration of the trading arrangement is until
September 25, 2025
, or earlier if all transactions under the trading arrangement are completed.
No other officers or directors, as defined in Rule 16a-1(f)
adopted
or
terminated
a “Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangement” as defined in Regulation S-K Item 408, during the last fiscal quarter.
Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections
Not Applicable.
141
PART III
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
The information required by this Item (other than the information set forth in the next paragraph) will be included in our definitive proxy statement for our 2024 annual meeting of stockholders, or the 2024 Proxy Statement, which will be filed with the SEC within 120 days after the end of our fiscal year ended July 31, 2024, and is incorporated herein by reference.
We have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics, or Code of Conduct, that applies to all of our employees, executive officers and directors. The full text of the Code of Conduct is available on our website at ir.zscaler.com. The nominating and corporate governance committee of our board of directors is responsible for overseeing the Code of Conduct and must approve any waivers of the Code of Conduct for employees, executive officers and directors. We expect that any amendments to the Code of Conduct, or any waivers of its requirements, will be disclosed on our website, as required by applicable law or the listing standards of The Nasdaq Global Market.
Item 11. Executive Compensation
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2024 Proxy Statement.
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2024 Proxy Statement.
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2024 Proxy Statement.
Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2024 Proxy Statement.
142
PART IV
Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule
(a)(1) Financial Statements
See Index to Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
(a)(2) Financial Statement Schedule
All financial statement schedules have been omitted as the information is not required under the related instructions or is not applicable or because the information required is already included in the financial statements or the notes to those financial statements.
(a)(3) Exhibits
143
Table of Contents
_______________________________________
+ Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
† Certain portions of this exhibit (indicated by "[***]") have been omitted as Registrant determined the omitted information (i) is not material and (ii) would be competitively harmful to Registrant if publicly disclosed.
* The certifications furnished in Exhibit 32.1 hereto are deemed to accompany this Annual Report on Form 10-K and will not be deemed “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except to the extent that the registrant specifically incorporates it by reference.
Item 16. Form 10-K Summary
None.
144
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
145
POWER OF ATTORNEY
KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below hereby constitutes and appoints Jagtar Chaudhry and Remo Canessa, and each of them, as his or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent with full power of substitution, for him or her in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this report, and to file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorney-in-fact, proxy, and agent full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in connection therewith, as fully for all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorney-in-fact, proxy and agent, or his substitute, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
146